Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION RISK ASSESSMENTb
Patient factors
• Age
• Smoking history
• Previous cancer history
• Family history
• Occupational exposures
• Other lung disease (chronic obstructive Solid nodules 
pulmonary disease [COPD], pulmonary fibrosis) See Follow-up 
Incidental • Multidisciplinary • Exposure to infectious agents (eg, endemic (DIAG-2)
finding of nodule evaluationa areas of fungal infections, tuberculosis) or risk 
suspicious for • Smoking cessation factors or history suggestive of infection (eg, 
lung cancer counseling immune suppression, aspiration, infectious 
respiratory symptoms)
Radiologic factorsc,d Subsolid nodules
See Follow-up 
• Size, shape, and density of the pulmonary (DIAG-3)
nodule 
• Associated parenchymal abnormalities (eg,  
scarring or suspicion of inflammatory changes)
• Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) avidity on PET/CT 
imaging
Lung nodules in 
asymptomatic, high-risk NCCN Guidelines for Lung 
patients detected during lung Cancer Screening
cancer screening with LDCT
a Multidisciplinary evaluation including thoracic surgeons, thoracic radiologists, and pulmonologists to determine the likelihood of a cancer diagnosis and the optimal 
diagnostic or follow-up strategy.
b Risk calculators can be used to quantify individual patient and radiologic factors but do not replace evaluation by a multidisciplinary diagnostic team with substantial 
experience in the diagnosis of lung cancer.
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3).
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous imaging study.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FINDINGS FOLLOW-UPc,d,g,h
<6 mm No routine follow-up
Low riske 6–8 mm CT at 6–12 mo Stable Consider CT 
at 18–24 mo
>8 mm Consider CT at 3 mo, 
PET/CT,i or biopsyj
Incidental 
finding: solid 
nodule(s) on 
chest CT <6 mm CT at 12 mo 
(optional) Stable No routine follow-up
High riskf 6–8 mm CT at 6–12 mo Stable Repeat CT at  
18–24 mo
>8 mm Consider CT at 3 mo, 
PET/CT,i or biopsyj
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3). i PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. A positive PET result is defined 
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous as a standardized uptake value (SUV) in the lung nodule greater than the baseline 
imaging study. mediastinal blood pool. A positive PET scan finding can be caused by infection or 
e Low risk = minimal or absent history of smoking or other known risk factors. inflammation, including absence of lung cancer with localized infection, presence 
f High risk = history of smoking or other known risk factors. Known risk factors include of lung cancer with associated (eg, postobstructive) infection, and presence of lung 
history of lung cancer in a first-degree relative; exposure to asbestos, radon, or cancer with related inflammation (eg, nodal, parenchymal, pleural). A false-negative 
uranium. PET scan can be caused by a small nodule, low cellular density (nonsolid nodule or 
g Non-solid (ground-glass) nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent ground-glass opacity [GGO]), or low tumor avidity for FDG (eg, adenocarcinoma in 
adenocarcinoma. situ [previously known as bronchoalveolar carcinoma], carcinoid tumor).
h Adapted from Fleischner Society Guidelines: MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo j If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary 
JM, et al. Guidelines for management of incidental pulmonary nodules detected evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and 
on CT images: From the Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology 2017;284:228-243. interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient 
©Radiological Society of North America. Fleischner Society Guidelines do not direct approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult and 
whether or not contrast is necessary or if an LDCT is appropriate. LDCT is preferred that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. (IJsseldijk MA, 
unless there is a reason for contrast enhancement for better diagnostic resolution. et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.) 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FINDINGS FOLLOW-UPc,d,g,h
Solitary pure <6 mm No routine follow-up
ground-glass CT at 6–12 mo to confirm no growth or 
nodules ≥6 mm development of a solid component, then 
CT every 2 y until 5 y
Incidental 
finding: Solitary <6 mm No routine follow-up
subsolid part-solid 
nodule(s) • CT at 3–6 mo to confirm no growth or change in solid 
nodules component, then annual CT for 5 y
on chest CT ≥6 mm
• If solid component ≥6 mm, consider PET/CTi or biopsyj
<6 mm • CT at 3–6 mo
If stable, consider CT at 2 and 4 y
Multiple 
subsolid 
nodules • CT at 3–6 mo
≥6 mm • Subsequent management 
based on most 
suspicious nodule(s)
i PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. A positive PET result is defined 
as a SUV in the lung nodule greater than the baseline mediastinal blood pool. A 
positive PET scan finding can be caused by infection or inflammation, including 
absence of lung cancer with localized infection, presence of lung cancer with 
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3). associated (eg, postobstructive) infection, and presence of lung cancer with related 
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous inflammation (eg, nodal, parenchymal, pleural). A false-negative PET scan can be 
imaging study. caused by a small nodule, low cellular density (nonsolid nodule or GGO), or low tumor 
g Non-solid (ground-glass) nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent avidity for FDG (eg, adenocarcinoma in situ [previously known as bronchoalveolar 
adenocarcinoma. carcinoma], carcinoid tumor).
h Adapted from Fleischner Society Guidelines: MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo j If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary 
JM, et al. Guidelines for management of incidental pulmonary nodules detected evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and 
on CT images: From the Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology 2017;284:228-243. interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient 
©Radiological Society of North America. Fleischner Society Guidelines do not direct approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult and 
whether or not contrast is necessary or if an LDCT is appropriate. LDCT is preferred that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. (IJsseldijk MA, 
unless there is a reason for contrast enhancement for better diagnostic resolution. et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
