Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)
Non-Small Cell Lung 
Cancer
Version 1.2022 — December 7, 2021
Continue
NCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patients
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Continue
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosures
*David S. Ettinger, MD/Chair † 
The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins
*Douglas E. Wood, MD/Vice Chair ¶ 
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/
Seattle Cancer Care Alliance
Dara L. Aisner, MD, PhD ≠ 
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Wallace Akerley, MD † 
Huntsman Cancer Institute  
at the University of Utah
Jessica R. Bauman, MD ‡ † 
Fox Chase Cancer Center
Ankit Bharat, MD ¶ 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center  
of Northwestern University
Debora S. Bruno, MD, MS † 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/ 
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center  
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Joe Y. Chang, MD, PhD § 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Lucian R. Chirieac, MD ≠ 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women’s  
Cancer Center
Thomas A. D’Amico, MD ¶ 
Duke Cancer Institute
Malcolm DeCamp, MD ¶ 
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center
Thomas J. Dilling, MD, MS § 
Moffitt Cancer Center
Jonathan Dowell, MD † 
UT Southwestern Simmons  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Scott Gettinger, MD † Þ 
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital
Travis E. Grotz, MD ¶ 
Mayo Clinic Cancer Center
Matthew A. Gubens, MD, MS † 
UCSF Helen Diller Family  
Comprehensive Cancer Center
Aparna Hegde, MD † 
O'Neal Comprehensive Cancer Center at UAB
Rudy P. Lackner, MD ¶ 
Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Michael Lanuti, MD ¶ 
Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center
Jules Lin, MD ¶ 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center
Billy W. Loo, Jr., MD, PhD § 
Stanford Cancer Institute 
Christine M. Lovly, MD, PhD † 
Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center
Renato G. Martins, MD, MPH † 
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/ 
Seattle Cancer Care Alliance
Erminia Massarelli, MD, PhD, MS † 
City of Hope National Medical Center
Daniel Morgensztern, MD † 
Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital 
and Washington University School of Medicine
Thomas Ng, MD ¶ 
The University of Tennessee  
Health Science Center
Gregory A. Otterson, MD † 
The Ohio State University Comprehensive  
Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  
and Solove Research Institute
Jose M. Pacheco, MD † 
University of Colorado Cancer Center
Sandip P. Patel, MD ‡ † Þ 
UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Gregory J. Riely, MD, PhD † Þ  
Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Jonathan Riess, MD ‡ 
UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Steven E. Schild, MD § 
Mayo Clinic Cancer Center
Theresa A. Shapiro, MD, PhD ¥ Þ 
The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins 
Aditi P. Singh, MD † 
Abramson Cancer Center at the  
University of Pennsylvania
James Stevenson, MD † 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/ 
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
Alda Tam, MD ф 
The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
Tawee Tanvetyanon, MD, MPH † 
Moffitt Cancer Center
Jane Yanagawa, MD ¶ 
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Stephen C. Yang, MD ¶ 
The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins
Edwin Yau, MD, PhD † 
Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
NCCN
Kristina Gregory, RN, MSN, OCN
Miranda Hughes, PhD
‡ Hematology/Hematology oncology
Þ Internal medicine
† Medical oncology
≠ Pathology 
¥ Patient advocacy
§ Radiation oncology/Radiotherapy
¶ Surgery/Surgical oncology
ф  Diagnostic/Interventional  
radiology
* Discussion Section Writing 
Committee
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that 
the best management for any patient 
with cancer is in a clinical trial.  
Participation in clinical trials is 
especially encouraged. 
Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
institutions.
NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
Consensus: All recommendations 
are category 2A unless otherwise 
indicated. 
See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
and Consensus.
NCCN Categories of Preference: 
All recommendations are considered 
appropriate.
See NCCN Categories of 
Preference.
NCCN Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Panel Members
Summary of Guidelines Updates
Lung Cancer Prevention and Screening (PREV-1)
Clinical Presentation and Risk Assessment (DIAG-1)
Initial Evaluation and Clinical Stage (NSCL-1)
Evaluation and Treatment:
• Stage IA (T1abc, N0) (NSCL-2)
• Stage IB (peripheral T2a, N0), Stage I (central T1abc–T2a, N0),  
Stage II (T1abc–2ab, N1; T2b, N0), Stage IIB (T3, N0), and Stage IIIA (T3, N1) (NSCL-3)
• Stage IIB (T3 invasion, N0) and Stage IIIA (T4 extension, N0–1; T3, N1; T4, N0–1) (NSCL-5)
• Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2); Stage IIIB (T3, N2); Separate Pulmonary Nodule(s) (Stage IIB, IIIA, IV) (NSCL-8)
• Multiple Lung Cancers (N0–1) (NSCL-11)
• Stage IIIB (T1–2, N3); Stage IIIC (T3, N3) (NSCL-12)
• Stage IIIB (T4, N2); Stage IIIC (T4, N3); Stage IVA, M1a: Pleural or Pericardial Effusion (NSCL-13)
• Stage IVA, M1b (NSCL-14)
Surveillance After Completion of Definitive Therapy (NSCL-16)
Therapy for Recurrence and Metastasis (NSCL-17)
Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-18)
Principles of Pathologic Review (NSCL-A)
Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B)
Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C)
Principles of Image-Guided Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D)
Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E)
Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F)
Cancer Survivorship Care (NSCL-G)
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H)
Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for Patients with Metastatic NSCLC (NSCL-I)
Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J)
Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-K)
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way. The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2021.
Staging (ST-1)
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
DIAG-A 2 of 3
• Bullet 1, sub-bullet 2: Diagnostic tools that provide important additional strategies for biopsy include
Diamond 4 added: Robotic bronchoscopy
DIAG-A 3 of 3
• Sub-bullet 1: The least invasive biopsy with the highest yield is preferred as the first diagnostic study
Diamond 5 added: Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE), when available, helps to increase diagnostic and molecular yield
NSCL-4
• Adjuvant Treatment
The following clarification added to osimertinib: EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R
• Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2; T3, N1); Stage IIIB (T3, N2)
Margins negative: Sequential chemotherapy
 ◊  RT (N2 only) removed and replaced with consider RT
NSCL-4A
• Footnote w modified: For patients with EGFR mutation-positive exon 19 deletion or L858R who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or 
are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy. (also applies to NSCL-6, NSCL-7)
NSCL-5
• Pretreatment Evaluation
Bullet 5 modified: MRI with contrast of spine + thoracic inlet for superior sulcus lesions abutting the spine, subclavian vessels, or brachial 
plexus
NSCL-6
• Surgical reevaluation including chest CT with or without contrast ± PET/CT
Footnote z added: MRI with contrast of spine + thoracic inlet for superior sulcus lesions abutting the spine, subclavian vessels, or brachial 
plexus.
NSCL-7
• Concurrent chemoradiation or chemotherapy, followed by surgery
Treatment modified for margins positive: Reresection and/or RT boost
Footnote removed: Consider RT boost if chemoradiation is given as initial treatment.
NSCL-9
• T1–2, T3 (other than invasive), N2 nodes positive, M0
Induction chemotherapy ± RT
 ◊ No apparent progression
 – Treatment modified: Surgery ± RT (if not given) Consider RT
 ◊ Progression
 – Treatment modified: RT (if not givenfeasible) ± chemotherapy
NSCL-10
• Footnote bb modified: Multiple studies suggest that next-generation sequencing (NGS) testing with broad gene coverage may allow for 
unambiguous determination of clonal relatedness among separate lung nodules.
NSCL-13
• Pretreatment Evaluation
Molecular testing changed to Biomarker testing (also applies to NSCL-14)
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-18
• Establish histologic subtype with adequate tissue for molecular testing (consider rebiopsy or plasma testing if appropriate)
• Footnote nn modified: The NCCN NSCLC Guidelines Panel strongly advises broader molecular profiling with the goal of identifying rare 
driver mutations for which effective drugs may already be available, or to appropriately counsel patients regarding the availability of clinical 
trials. Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 in either a single assay or 
a combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered approaches based on low 
prevalence of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable.
NSCL-19
• Testing Results
Category added for EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X mutation positive
Language for PD-L1 categories changed from molecular markers to molecular biomarkers
NSCL-20
• Footnote tt modified: If systemic therapy regimen contains an immune checkpoint inhibitor, physicians should be aware of the long half-
life of such drugs and data reporting adverse events when combining checkpoint inhibitors with using osimertinib in combination with or 
following checkpoint inhibitors.
NSCL-21
• Footnote ww modified: Consider a biopsy at time of progression to rule out SCLC transformation and evaluate mechanisms of resistance. 
(also applies to NSCL-22)
• Footnote yy modified: The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-
L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK+ NSCLC. (also applies to NSCL-22, NSCL-27, NSCL-28)
NSCL-22
• T790M testing: category 1 added
• Subsequent therapy specifically noted for T790M-
• Footnote zz modified: Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression, on EGFR TKIs 
for the T790M mutation and other genomic resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-based testing with rebiopsy 
material is strongly recommended. Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral. 
NSCL-23
• New page added with treatment recommendations for EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X
NSCL-24
• Footnotes ccc and eee modified: high-risk added (also applies to NSCL-25, NSCL-37, NSCL-J)
NSCL-27
• Lorlatinib added for ALK G1202R
• Limited metastases: Therapy for multiple lesions added as an option (also applies to NSCL-28, NSCL-30)
• Footnote zz added: Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression for genomic 
resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly recommended. 
Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral. (also applies to NSCL-28, NSCL-30)
NSCL-28
• Subsequent Therapy: Lorlatinib added as a treatment option
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-30
• New page added for more detailed treatment options after progression on entrectinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib
NSCL-31
• First-line Therapy; Useful in Certain Circumstances
Dabrafenib added as a treatment option 
Footnote hhh modified: Single-agent vemurafenib or dabrafenib are is a treatment options if the combination of dabrafenib + trametinib is 
not tolerated.
• Subsequent Therapy
A link added to additional subsequent therapy options (NSCL-K 4 of 5) (also applies to NSCL-32, NSCL-33, NSCL-34)
NSCL-34
• First-line Therapy; Useful in Certain Circumstances
Vandetanib removed as a treatment option.
NSCL-35
• Footnote jjj added: For patients who require an urgent start to therapy but molecular testing is pending, consider holding immunotherapy for 
one cycle, unless confirmed that no driver mutations are present. (also applies to NSCL-36)
NSCL-A 4 of 4
• Immunohistochemistry
Bullet 1; sub-bullet 1 modified: NCAM (CD56), chromogranin, and synaptophysin, and INSM1 are used to identify neuroendocrine tumors in 
cases in which morphologic suspicion of neuroendocrine differentiation exists.
NSCL-B 2 of 4
• Margins and Nodal Assessment
Bullet 5 modified: Patients with pathologic stage II or greater, or high-risk factors, should be referred to medical oncology for evaluation.
NSCL-B 3 of 4
• The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA NSCLC
Bullet 5 modified: Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is used in 50%one-third of the NCCN Member Institutions, while neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy is used in the other 50%two-thirds.
• Data from the updated questionnaire (2021) included regarding the approach to patients with N2 disease at the NCCN Member Institutions
All NCCN institutions treat select N2 patients with multimodality therapy that includes surgery.
The majority of NCCN institutions prefer EBUS for initial mediastinal staging, reserving mediastinoscopy for possible restaging.
The majority of institutions do not pathologically restage mediastinal lymph nodes after induction therapy and prior to surgery.
All NCCN institutions consider surgery for single-station non-bulky N2 disease.
Approximately half of the institutions consider surgery for single-station bulky disease, 39% for multi-station non-bulky disease, and 21% 
for multi-station bulky disease.
Two-thirds of institutions prefer induction chemotherapy; one-third prefer chemoradiation.
The majority require at least stable disease after induction, but do not require radiologic or pathologic response prior to surgery.
Roughly a half would consider pneumonectomy after induction chemotherapy, but less than a quarter would consider pneumonectomy 
after chemoradiation.
Approximately three-fourths would give adjuvant RT for positive residual N2 disease, but only approximately one-fourth would give RT for  
N2 pathologic complete response.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-C 1 of 11
• General Principles
Bullet 2 and Bullet 4: definitive changed to definitive/consolidative
NSCL-C 3 of 11
• Early-Stage NSCLC
Bullet 1:  
SABR (also known as SBRT) is recommended for patients who are medically inoperable or who refuse to have surgery after thoracic 
surgery evaluation. SABR has achieved good primary tumor control rates and overall survival, and higher than conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy, although not proven equivalent to lobectomy.  
replaced with  
SABR (also known as SBRT) has achieved good primary tumor control rates and overall survival, higher than conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy. Although SABR is not proven equivalent to lobectomy, some prospective series have demonstrated similar overall and 
cancer-specific survival.
Bullet 5 added: Close follow-up and salvage therapy for isolated local and/or locoregional recurrence after SABR have been shown to 
improve overall survival in a large retrospective study.
NSCL-C 4 of 11 
• Conventionally Fractionated RT for Locally Advanced NSCLC
Bullet 2; sub-bullet 1; last sentence modified: A meta-analysis demonstrated improved survival with accelerated fractionation RT regimens, 
and individualized accelerated RT dose intensification is now being analyzed in a randomized trial (RTOG 1106) and RTOG 1106 found that 
PET-based individualized accelerated RT dose intensification potentially improved local control but not overall survival.
NSCL-C 5 of 11
• Advanced/Metastatic NSCLC (Stage IV)
Bullet 2: definitive changed to definitive/consolidative
Bullet 6 added: A pooled analysis of two randomized trials indicated that adding radiotherapy to a certain immune checkpoint inhibitor 
(anti-PD-1) significantly increased responses and clinical outcomes in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Larger phase III 
randomized studies are ongoing.
NSCL-C 7 of 11
• Table 2. Commonly Used Doses for SABR
Example Indications
 ◊ Definition of small tumors (<2 cm) removed
 ◊ Distance from chest wall removed 
NSCL-C 8 of 11
• Table 4; footnote ** added: This regimen includes one dose per week, as the phase 3 study included day 1 & 8 treatments.
• Table 5; reference removed: Al-Halabi H, et al. A contralateral esophagus-sparing technique to limit severe esophagitis associated with 
concurrent high-dose radiation and chemotherapy in patients with thoracic malignancies. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:803-810.
• Table 5; reference added: Kamran SC, et al. JAMA Oncol 2021;7:910-914.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-C 9 of 11 through NSCL-C 11 of 11
• Reference 3: Sejpal S, et al. Early findings on toxicity of proton beam therapy with concurrent chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer. 
Cancer 2011;117:3004-3013. 
replaced with 
Gjyshi O, et al. Toxicity and survival after intensity-modulated proton therapy versus passive scattering proton therapy for NSCLC. J Thorac 
Oncol 2021;16:269-277.
• Reference 30 added: Chang JY, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for operable stage I non-small-cell lung cancer (revised STARS): 
long-term results of a single-arm, prospective trial with prespecified comparison to surgery. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1448-1457.
• Reference 34 added: Brooks ED, et al. Association of long-term outcomes and survival with multidisciplinary salvage treatment for local and 
regional recurrence after stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for early-stage lung cancer. JAMA Netw Open 2018;1:e181390.
• Reference 86: Schild SE, et al. Toxicity related to radiotherapy dose and targeting strategy: a pooled analysis of cooperative group trials of 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:298-303.  
replaced with 
Schild SE, et al. Exploring radiotherapy targeting strategy and dose: a pooled analysis of cooperative group trials of combined modality 
therapy for stage III NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2018;13:1171-1182.
• Reference 88 added: Kong F-M S, et al. NRG-RTOG 1106/ACRIN 6697: A phase IIR trial of standard versus adaptive (mid-treatment PET-
based) chemoradiotherapy for stage III NSCLC—Results and comparison to NRG-RTOG 0617 (non-personalized RT dose escalation). J Clin 
Oncol 2021;39:8548-8548.
• Reference 103 added: Theelen WSME, et al. Pembrolizumab with or without radiotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a polled 
analysis of two randomised trials. The Lancet 2021;9:467-475.
NSCL-D
• Evaluation
Bullet 3 modified: If an interventional radiologist or center is uncertain about the feasibility or safety of IGTA or the use of IGTA for radiation 
failure, consider obtaining an additional interventional radiology opinion from a high-volume specialized center.
• Ablation for NSCLC
Bullet 3 added: Like surgery, pneumothorax may occur after IGTA, particularly if multiple lesions are treated in a single session.  
Pneumothorax has been reported in 18.7%–45.7% of IGTA cases. Self-limited pneumothorax, not requiring chest tube placement, is an 
expected event and not considered a complication unless escalation of care is required. In 20.7% of IGTA cases, chest tube insertion may 
be required.
Reference 10 added: Genshaft SJ, Suh RD, Abtin F, et al. Society of Interventional Radiology Quality Improvement Standards on 
Percutaneous Ablation of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer and Metastatic Disease to the Lungs. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2021;32:1242.e1-1242.e10.
NSCL-E 1 of 2
• Previous Adjuvant Chemotherapy or Ineligible for Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
Osimertinib for patients with completely resected stage IIB-IIIA or high risk stage IB-IIIA EGFR mutation-positive (exon 19 deletion, L858R) 
NSCLC who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy.
NSCL-F 1 of 2
• Consolidation Immunotherapy for Patients with Unresectable Stage II/III NSCLC, PS 0–1, and No Disease Progression After 2 or More Cycles 
of Definitive Concurrent Chemoradiation
• Footnote § modified:  If using durvalumab, an additional 2 cycles of chemotherapy is not recommended, if patients have not received full-
dose chemotherapy concurrently with RT.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
UPDATES
Continued
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-F 2 of 2
• Reference 6: Curran WJ Jr, Paulus R, Langer CJ, et al. Sequential vs. concurrent chemoradiation for stage III non-small cell lung cancer: 
randomized phase III trial RTOG 9410. J Natl Cancer Inst 2011;103:1452-1460.  
replaced with  
Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: 
long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318.
• Reference removed: Antonia SJ, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Overall survival with durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III NSCLC. N 
Engl J Med 2018;379:2342-2550.
• Reference 8 added: Faivre-Finn C, Vicente D, Kurata T, et al. Four-year survival with durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III NSCLC-
an update from the PACIFIC trial. J Thorac Oncol 2021;16:860-867.
NSCL-H 1 of 7
• Bullet 3: Tissue Specimen Acquisition and Management
Sub-bullet 2 modified: A major limitation in obtaining tissue molecular testing results for NSCLC occurs when minimally invasive 
techniques are used to obtain samples.
Sub-bullet 3 modified: When tissue is minimal, laboratories should deploy techniques to maximize tissue for molecular and ancillary 
testing, including dedicated histology protocols for small biopsies, including “up-front” slide sectioning for diagnostic and predictive 
testing. Peripheral blood (plasma circulating tumor DNA) can be a surrogate sample (NSCL-H 7 of 7).
NSCL-H 2 of 7
• Testing Methodologies
New entry under diamond 2: Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 
in either a single assay or a combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered 
approaches based on low prevalence of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable.
Diamond 5 added: Any method that interrogates sequences other than a subset of highly specific alterations (eg, NGS, Sanger) has the 
potential to identify variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Any variant classified as a VUS, even if in a gene in which other variants are 
clinically actionable, should not be considered as a basis for targeted therapy selection.
Diamond removed: IHC is specifically utilized for some specific analytes, and can be a useful surrogate or screening assay for others. 
NSCL-H 3 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 2: EGFR Gene Mutations
 ◊ Diamond 2 updated: Molecular testing for EGFR mutations to should be performed when adjuvant TKI therapy is a consideration for 
NSCLC stage IB-IIIA. While the testing process may be technically easier on a resected specimen, initial diagnostic biopsy specimens are 
also acceptable for testing for this indication. on diagnostic biopsy or surgical resection sample to ensure the EGFR mutation results are 
available for adjuvant treatment decisions for patients with stage IIB-IIIA or high risk stage IB-IIA NSCLC.
 ◊ Diamond 3 modified: Many of the less commonly observed alterations in EGFR, which cumulatively account for ~10% of EGFR-mutation 
positive NSCLC (ie, exon 19 insertions, p.L861Q, p.G719X, p.S768I) are also associated with responsiveness to certain EGFR TKIs 
therapy, such as osimertinib and afatinib, and should be considered on a mutation-specific basis, when possible although the number of 
studied patients is lower.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Discussion
Continued
UPDATES
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-H 3 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 2: EGFR Gene Mutations
 ◊ Diamond 4; entry modified: If EGFR p.T790M is observed identified in the absence of prior EGFR TKI therapy, genetic counseling and 
possible germline genetic testing are warranted. Identification of germline EGFR p.T790M confers a high risk for lung cancer regardless 
of smoking status.
 ◊ Diamond 5 modified: EGFR exon 20 (EGFRex20) mutations (other than EGFR p.T790M) are a heterogeneous group, some of which are 
responsive to targeted therapy and that require detailed knowledge of the specific alteration.
 – Sub-bullet 1 modified: These are generally associated with lack of response to first-, second-, and third-generation EGFR TKI 
therapy, with select exceptions: p.A763_Y764insFQEA is associated with sensitivity to TKI therapy and p.A763_Y764insLQEA may be 
associated with sensitivity to first- and third-generation TKI therapy.
 – Sub-bullet 2 added: EGFRex20 insertions/duplications are associated with responsiveness to specific targeted subsequent therapy 
agents. The most commonly represented EGFRex20 insertions/duplications in the clinical studies have been insASV, insSVD, and 
insNPH, although a wide spectrum of other alterations were included. There is currently no evidence that the specific alteration type 
impacts the probability of responsiveness to this class of kinase inhibitor.
 – Sub-bullet 3 modified: Because some EGFRex20 mutations are or may be sensitive to first- and third-generation inhibitors, For this 
reason, the specific sequence of EGFRex20 insertion mutations isremains important., and Some assays will identify the presence of an 
EGFRex20 insertion without specifying the sequence. In this scenario, and additional testing to further clarify the EGFRex20 insertion 
ismay be indicated for therapy selection.
 – Sub-bullet 4 added: Targeted PCR-based approaches for detection of EGFR variants may under-detect EGFRex20 insertion events; 
therefore, NGS-based strategies are preferred.
 ◊ Diamond removed, as content added to NSCL-H 2 of 7: As use of NGS testing increases, additional EGFR variants are increasingly 
identified; however, the clinical implications of individual alterations are unlikely to be well established.
NSCL-H 5 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 1: KRAS point mutations
 ◊ Diamond 5 added: The presence of KRAS p.G12C is associated with responsiveness to an oral KRAS G12C inhibitor used for subsequent 
therapy, which was designed specifically for this mutation. Responsiveness to this class of inhibitor has not been prospectively 
evaluated with mutations other than KRAS p.G12C.
 ◊ Diamond 6 added: Testing methodologies: NGS, real-time PCR, and Sanger sequencing (ideally paired with tumor enrichment) are the 
most commonly deployed methodologies for examining KRAS mutation status.
Sub-bullet 2: MET exon 14 skipping variants
 ◊ Diamond 3 modified: Testing Methodologies: NGS-based testing is the primary method for detection of METex14 skipping events; RNA-
based NGS may have improved demonstrating improvement in detection. 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
