NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®)
Non-Small Cell Lung 
Cancer
Version 1.2022 — December 7, 2021
NCCN.org
NCCN Guidelines for Patients® available at www.nccn.org/patients
Continue
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
*David S. Ettinger, MD/Chair † Travis E. Grotz, MD ¶ Sandip P. Patel, MD ‡ † Þ 
The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  Mayo Clinic Cancer Center UC San Diego Moores Cancer Center
Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins Matthew A. Gubens, MD, MS † Gregory J. Riely, MD, PhD † Þ  
*Douglas E. Wood, MD/Vice Chair ¶ UCSF Helen Diller Family  Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center
Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/ Comprehensive Cancer Center
Seattle Cancer Care Alliance Jonathan Riess, MD ‡ 
Aparna Hegde, MD † UC Davis Comprehensive Cancer Center
Dara L. Aisner, MD, PhD ≠ O'Neal Comprehensive Cancer Center at UAB
University of Colorado Cancer Center Steven E. Schild, MD § 
Rudy P. Lackner, MD ¶ Mayo Clinic Cancer Center
Wallace Akerley, MD † Fred & Pamela Buffett Cancer Center
Huntsman Cancer Institute  Theresa A. Shapiro, MD, PhD ¥ Þ 
at the University of Utah Michael Lanuti, MD ¶ The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  
Massachusetts General Hospital Cancer Center Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins 
Jessica R. Bauman, MD ‡ † 
Fox Chase Cancer Center Jules Lin, MD ¶ Aditi P. Singh, MD † 
University of Michigan Rogel Cancer Center Abramson Cancer Center at the  
Ankit Bharat, MD ¶ 
Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center  Billy W. Loo, Jr., MD, PhD § University of Pennsylvania
of Northwestern University Stanford Cancer Institute James Stevenson, MD † 
Debora S. Bruno, MD, MS † Christine M. Lovly, MD, PhD † Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/ 
Case Comprehensive Cancer Center/ Vanderbilt-Ingram Cancer Center University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute
University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center  Renato G. Martins, MD, MPH † 
and Cleveland Clinic Taussig Cancer Institute Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center/ Alda Tam, MD ф 
Joe Y. Chang, MD, PhD § Seattle Cancer Care Alliance The University of Texas  
MD Anderson Cancer Center
The University of Texas  Erminia Massarelli, MD, PhD, MS † 
MD Anderson Cancer Center City of Hope National Medical Center Tawee Tanvetyanon, MD, MPH † 
Moffitt Cancer Center
Lucian R. Chirieac, MD ≠ Daniel Morgensztern, MD † 
Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women’s  Siteman Cancer Center at Barnes-Jewish Hospital Jane Yanagawa, MD ¶ 
Cancer Center and Washington University School of Medicine UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
Thomas A. D’Amico, MD ¶ Thomas Ng, MD ¶ Stephen C. Yang, MD ¶ 
Duke Cancer Institute The University of Tennessee  The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive  
Malcolm DeCamp, MD ¶ Health Science Center Cancer Center at Johns Hopkins
University of Wisconsin Carbone Cancer Center Gregory A. Otterson, MD † Edwin Yau, MD, PhD † 
Thomas J. Dilling, MD, MS § The Ohio State University Comprehensive  Roswell Park Comprehensive Cancer Center
Moffitt Cancer Center Cancer Center - James Cancer Hospital  NCCN
and Solove Research Institute Kristina Gregory, RN, MSN, OCN
Jonathan Dowell, MD † 
UT Southwestern Simmons  Jose M. Pacheco, MD † Miranda Hughes, PhD
Comprehensive Cancer Center University of Colorado Cancer Center ‡ Hematology/Hematology oncology ¶ Surgery/Surgical oncology
Þ Internal medicine ф  Diagnostic/Interventional  
Scott Gettinger, MD † Þ † Medical oncology
Yale Cancer Center/Smilow Cancer Hospital Continue radiology
≠ Pathology * Discussion Section Writing 
¥ Patient advocacy Committee
NCCN Guidelines Panel Disclosures § Radiation oncology/Radiotherapy
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
NCCN Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Panel Members
Summary of Guidelines Updates Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that 
the best management for any patient 
Lung Cancer Prevention and Screening (PREV-1) with cancer is in a clinical trial.  
Clinical Presentation and Risk Assessment (DIAG-1) Participation in clinical trials is 
Initial Evaluation and Clinical Stage (NSCL-1) especially encouraged. 
Evaluation and Treatment:
• Stage IA (T1abc, N0) (NSCL-2) Find an NCCN Member Institution: 
• Stage IB (peripheral T2a, N0), Stage I (central T1abc–T2a, N0),  https://www.nccn.org/home/member-
Stage II (T1abc–2ab, N1; T2b, N0), Stage IIB (T3, N0), and Stage IIIA (T3, N1) (NSCL-3) institutions.
• Stage IIB (T3 invasion, N0) and Stage IIIA (T4 extension, N0–1; T3, N1; T4, N0–1) (NSCL-5) NCCN Categories of Evidence and 
• Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2); Stage IIIB (T3, N2); Separate Pulmonary Nodule(s) (Stage IIB, IIIA, IV) (NSCL-8) Consensus: All recommendations 
• Multiple Lung Cancers (N0–1) (NSCL-11) are category 2A unless otherwise 
• Stage IIIB (T1–2, N3); Stage IIIC (T3, N3) (NSCL-12) indicated. 
• Stage IIIB (T4, N2); Stage IIIC (T4, N3); Stage IVA, M1a: Pleural or Pericardial Effusion (NSCL-13)
• Stage IVA, M1b (NSCL-14) See NCCN Categories of Evidence  
Surveillance After Completion of Definitive Therapy (NSCL-16) and Consensus.
Therapy for Recurrence and Metastasis (NSCL-17)
Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-18) NCCN Categories of Preference: 
Principles of Pathologic Review (NSCL-A) All recommendations are considered 
Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B) appropriate.
Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C) See NCCN Categories of 
Principles of Image-Guided Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D) Preference.
Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E)
Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F)
Cancer Survivorship Care (NSCL-G)
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H)
Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for Patients with Metastatic NSCLC (NSCL-I) Staging (ST-1)
Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J)
Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-K)
The NCCN Guidelines® are a statement of evidence and consensus of the authors regarding their views of currently accepted approaches to 
treatment. Any clinician seeking to apply or consult the NCCN Guidelines is expected to use independent medical judgment in the context of individual 
clinical circumstances to determine any patient’s care or treatment. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®) makes no representations 
or warranties of any kind regarding their content, use or application and disclaims any responsibility for their application or use in any way. The NCCN 
Guidelines are copyrighted by National Comprehensive Cancer Network®. All rights reserved. The NCCN Guidelines and the illustrations herein may not 
be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. ©2021.
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
DIAG-A 2 of 3
• Bullet 1, sub-bullet 2: Diagnostic tools that provide important additional strategies for biopsy include
Diamond 4 added: Robotic bronchoscopy
DIAG-A 3 of 3
• Sub-bullet 1: The least invasive biopsy with the highest yield is preferred as the first diagnostic study
Diamond 5 added: Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE), when available, helps to increase diagnostic and molecular yield
NSCL-4
• Adjuvant Treatment
The following clarification added to osimertinib: EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R
• Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2; T3, N1); Stage IIIB (T3, N2)
Margins negative: Sequential chemotherapy
◊  RT (N2 only) removed and replaced with consider RT
NSCL-4A
• Footnote w modified: For patients with EGFR mutation-positive exon 19 deletion or L858R who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or 
are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy. (also applies to NSCL-6, NSCL-7)
NSCL-5
• Pretreatment Evaluation
Bullet 5 modified: MRI with contrast of spine + thoracic inlet for superior sulcus lesions abutting the spine, subclavian vessels, or brachial 
plexus
NSCL-6
• Surgical reevaluation including chest CT with or without contrast ± PET/CT
Footnote z added: MRI with contrast of spine + thoracic inlet for superior sulcus lesions abutting the spine, subclavian vessels, or brachial 
plexus.
NSCL-7
• Concurrent chemoradiation or chemotherapy, followed by surgery
Treatment modified for margins positive: Reresection and/or RT boost
Footnote removed: Consider RT boost if chemoradiation is given as initial treatment.
NSCL-9
• T1–2, T3 (other than invasive), N2 nodes positive, M0
Induction chemotherapy ± RT
◊ No apparent progression
– Treatment modified: Surgery ± RT (if not given) Consider RT
◊ Progression
– Treatment modified: RT (if not givenfeasible) ± chemotherapy
NSCL-10
• Footnote bb modified: Multiple studies suggest that next-generation sequencing (NGS) testing with broad gene coverage may allow for 
unambiguous determination of clonal relatedness among separate lung nodules.
NSCL-13
• Pretreatment Evaluation
Molecular testing changed to Biomarker testing (also applies to NSCL-14) Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-18
• Establish histologic subtype with adequate tissue for molecular testing (consider rebiopsy or plasma testing if appropriate)
• Footnote nn modified: The NCCN NSCLC Guidelines Panel strongly advises broader molecular profiling with the goal of identifying rare 
driver mutations for which effective drugs may already be available, or to appropriately counsel patients regarding the availability of clinical 
trials. Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 in either a single assay or 
a combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered approaches based on low 
prevalence of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable.
NSCL-19
• Testing Results
Category added for EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X mutation positive
Language for PD-L1 categories changed from molecular markers to molecular biomarkers
NSCL-20
• Footnote tt modified: If systemic therapy regimen contains an immune checkpoint inhibitor, physicians should be aware of the long half-
life of such drugs and data reporting adverse events when combining checkpoint inhibitors with using osimertinib in combination with or 
following checkpoint inhibitors.
NSCL-21
• Footnote ww modified: Consider a biopsy at time of progression to rule out SCLC transformation and evaluate mechanisms of resistance. 
(also applies to NSCL-22)
• Footnote yy modified: The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-
L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK+ NSCLC. (also applies to NSCL-22, NSCL-27, NSCL-28)
NSCL-22
• T790M testing: category 1 added
• Subsequent therapy specifically noted for T790M-
• Footnote zz modified: Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression, on EGFR TKIs 
for the T790M mutation and other genomic resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-based testing with rebiopsy 
material is strongly recommended. Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral. 
NSCL-23
• New page added with treatment recommendations for EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X
NSCL-24
• Footnotes ccc and eee modified: high-risk added (also applies to NSCL-25, NSCL-37, NSCL-J)
NSCL-27
• Lorlatinib added for ALK G1202R
• Limited metastases: Therapy for multiple lesions added as an option (also applies to NSCL-28, NSCL-30)
• Footnote zz added: Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression for genomic 
resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly recommended. 
Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral. (also applies to NSCL-28, NSCL-30)
NSCL-28
• Subsequent Therapy: Lorlatinib added as a treatment option Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-30
• New page added for more detailed treatment options after progression on entrectinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib
NSCL-31
• First-line Therapy; Useful in Certain Circumstances
Dabrafenib added as a treatment option 
Footnote hhh modified: Single-agent vemurafenib or dabrafenib are is a treatment options if the combination of dabrafenib + trametinib is 
not tolerated.
• Subsequent Therapy
A link added to additional subsequent therapy options (NSCL-K 4 of 5) (also applies to NSCL-32, NSCL-33, NSCL-34)
NSCL-34
• First-line Therapy; Useful in Certain Circumstances
Vandetanib removed as a treatment option.
NSCL-35
• Footnote jjj added: For patients who require an urgent start to therapy but molecular testing is pending, consider holding immunotherapy for 
one cycle, unless confirmed that no driver mutations are present. (also applies to NSCL-36)
NSCL-A 4 of 4
• Immunohistochemistry
Bullet 1; sub-bullet 1 modified: NCAM (CD56), chromogranin, and synaptophysin, and INSM1 are used to identify neuroendocrine tumors in 
cases in which morphologic suspicion of neuroendocrine differentiation exists.
NSCL-B 2 of 4
• Margins and Nodal Assessment
Bullet 5 modified: Patients with pathologic stage II or greater, or high-risk factors, should be referred to medical oncology for evaluation.
NSCL-B 3 of 4
• The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA NSCLC
Bullet 5 modified: Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is used in 50%one-third of the NCCN Member Institutions, while neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy is used in the other 50%two-thirds.
• Data from the updated questionnaire (2021) included regarding the approach to patients with N2 disease at the NCCN Member Institutions
All NCCN institutions treat select N2 patients with multimodality therapy that includes surgery.
The majority of NCCN institutions prefer EBUS for initial mediastinal staging, reserving mediastinoscopy for possible restaging.
The majority of institutions do not pathologically restage mediastinal lymph nodes after induction therapy and prior to surgery.
All NCCN institutions consider surgery for single-station non-bulky N2 disease.
Approximately half of the institutions consider surgery for single-station bulky disease, 39% for multi-station non-bulky disease, and 21% 
for multi-station bulky disease.
Two-thirds of institutions prefer induction chemotherapy; one-third prefer chemoradiation.
The majority require at least stable disease after induction, but do not require radiologic or pathologic response prior to surgery.
Roughly a half would consider pneumonectomy after induction chemotherapy, but less than a quarter would consider pneumonectomy 
after chemoradiation.
Approximately three-fourths would give adjuvant RT for positive residual N2 disease, but only approximately one-fourth would give RT for  
N2 pathologic complete response.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-C 1 of 11
• General Principles
Bullet 2 and Bullet 4: definitive changed to definitive/consolidative
NSCL-C 3 of 11
• Early-Stage NSCLC
Bullet 1:  
SABR (also known as SBRT) is recommended for patients who are medically inoperable or who refuse to have surgery after thoracic 
surgery evaluation. SABR has achieved good primary tumor control rates and overall survival, and higher than conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy, although not proven equivalent to lobectomy.  
replaced with  
SABR (also known as SBRT) has achieved good primary tumor control rates and overall survival, higher than conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy. Although SABR is not proven equivalent to lobectomy, some prospective series have demonstrated similar overall and 
cancer-specific survival.
Bullet 5 added: Close follow-up and salvage therapy for isolated local and/or locoregional recurrence after SABR have been shown to 
improve overall survival in a large retrospective study.
NSCL-C 4 of 11 
• Conventionally Fractionated RT for Locally Advanced NSCLC
Bullet 2; sub-bullet 1; last sentence modified: A meta-analysis demonstrated improved survival with accelerated fractionation RT regimens, 
and individualized accelerated RT dose intensification is now being analyzed in a randomized trial (RTOG 1106) and RTOG 1106 found that 
PET-based individualized accelerated RT dose intensification potentially improved local control but not overall survival.
NSCL-C 5 of 11
• Advanced/Metastatic NSCLC (Stage IV)
Bullet 2: definitive changed to definitive/consolidative
Bullet 6 added: A pooled analysis of two randomized trials indicated that adding radiotherapy to a certain immune checkpoint inhibitor 
(anti-PD-1) significantly increased responses and clinical outcomes in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Larger phase III 
randomized studies are ongoing.
NSCL-C 7 of 11
• Table 2. Commonly Used Doses for SABR
Example Indications
◊ Definition of small tumors (<2 cm) removed
◊ Distance from chest wall removed 
NSCL-C 8 of 11
• Table 4; footnote ** added: This regimen includes one dose per week, as the phase 3 study included day 1 & 8 treatments.
• Table 5; reference removed: Al-Halabi H, et al. A contralateral esophagus-sparing technique to limit severe esophagitis associated with 
concurrent high-dose radiation and chemotherapy in patients with thoracic malignancies. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:803-810.
• Table 5; reference added: Kamran SC, et al. JAMA Oncol 2021;7:910-914.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-C 9 of 11 through NSCL-C 11 of 11
• Reference 3: Sejpal S, et al. Early findings on toxicity of proton beam therapy with concurrent chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer. 
Cancer 2011;117:3004-3013. 
replaced with 
Gjyshi O, et al. Toxicity and survival after intensity-modulated proton therapy versus passive scattering proton therapy for NSCLC. J Thorac 
Oncol 2021;16:269-277.
• Reference 30 added: Chang JY, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for operable stage I non-small-cell lung cancer (revised STARS): 
long-term results of a single-arm, prospective trial with prespecified comparison to surgery. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1448-1457.
• Reference 34 added: Brooks ED, et al. Association of long-term outcomes and survival with multidisciplinary salvage treatment for local and 
regional recurrence after stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for early-stage lung cancer. JAMA Netw Open 2018;1:e181390.
• Reference 86: Schild SE, et al. Toxicity related to radiotherapy dose and targeting strategy: a pooled analysis of cooperative group trials of 
combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:298-303.  
replaced with 
Schild SE, et al. Exploring radiotherapy targeting strategy and dose: a pooled analysis of cooperative group trials of combined modality 
therapy for stage III NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2018;13:1171-1182.
• Reference 88 added: Kong F-M S, et al. NRG-RTOG 1106/ACRIN 6697: A phase IIR trial of standard versus adaptive (mid-treatment PET-
based) chemoradiotherapy for stage III NSCLC—Results and comparison to NRG-RTOG 0617 (non-personalized RT dose escalation). J Clin 
Oncol 2021;39:8548-8548.
• Reference 103 added: Theelen WSME, et al. Pembrolizumab with or without radiotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a polled 
analysis of two randomised trials. The Lancet 2021;9:467-475.
NSCL-D
• Evaluation
Bullet 3 modified: If an interventional radiologist or center is uncertain about the feasibility or safety of IGTA or the use of IGTA for radiation 
failure, consider obtaining an additional interventional radiology opinion from a high-volume specialized center.
• Ablation for NSCLC
Bullet 3 added: Like surgery, pneumothorax may occur after IGTA, particularly if multiple lesions are treated in a single session.  
Pneumothorax has been reported in 18.7%–45.7% of IGTA cases. Self-limited pneumothorax, not requiring chest tube placement, is an 
expected event and not considered a complication unless escalation of care is required. In 20.7% of IGTA cases, chest tube insertion may 
be required.
Reference 10 added: Genshaft SJ, Suh RD, Abtin F, et al. Society of Interventional Radiology Quality Improvement Standards on 
Percutaneous Ablation of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer and Metastatic Disease to the Lungs. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2021;32:1242.e1-1242.e10.
NSCL-E 1 of 2
• Previous Adjuvant Chemotherapy or Ineligible for Platinum-Based Chemotherapy
Osimertinib for patients with completely resected stage IIB-IIIA or high risk stage IB-IIIA EGFR mutation-positive (exon 19 deletion, L858R) 
NSCLC who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy.
NSCL-F 1 of 2
• Consolidation Immunotherapy for Patients with Unresectable Stage II/III NSCLC, PS 0–1, and No Disease Progression After 2 or More Cycles 
of Definitive Concurrent Chemoradiation
• Footnote § modified:  If using durvalumab, an additional 2 cycles of chemotherapy is not recommended, if patients have not received full-
dose chemotherapy concurrently with RT. Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-F 2 of 2
• Reference 6: Curran WJ Jr, Paulus R, Langer CJ, et al. Sequential vs. concurrent chemoradiation for stage III non-small cell lung cancer: 
randomized phase III trial RTOG 9410. J Natl Cancer Inst 2011;103:1452-1460.  
replaced with  
Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: 
long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318.
• Reference removed: Antonia SJ, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Overall survival with durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III NSCLC. N 
Engl J Med 2018;379:2342-2550.
• Reference 8 added: Faivre-Finn C, Vicente D, Kurata T, et al. Four-year survival with durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III NSCLC-
an update from the PACIFIC trial. J Thorac Oncol 2021;16:860-867.
NSCL-H 1 of 7
• Bullet 3: Tissue Specimen Acquisition and Management
Sub-bullet 2 modified: A major limitation in obtaining tissue molecular testing results for NSCLC occurs when minimally invasive 
techniques are used to obtain samples.
Sub-bullet 3 modified: When tissue is minimal, laboratories should deploy techniques to maximize tissue for molecular and ancillary 
testing, including dedicated histology protocols for small biopsies, including “up-front” slide sectioning for diagnostic and predictive 
testing. Peripheral blood (plasma circulating tumor DNA) can be a surrogate sample (NSCL-H 7 of 7).
NSCL-H 2 of 7
• Testing Methodologies
New entry under diamond 2: Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 
in either a single assay or a combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered 
approaches based on low prevalence of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable.
Diamond 5 added: Any method that interrogates sequences other than a subset of highly specific alterations (eg, NGS, Sanger) has the 
potential to identify variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Any variant classified as a VUS, even if in a gene in which other variants are 
clinically actionable, should not be considered as a basis for targeted therapy selection.
Diamond removed: IHC is specifically utilized for some specific analytes, and can be a useful surrogate or screening assay for others. 
NSCL-H 3 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 2: EGFR Gene Mutations
◊ Diamond 2 updated: Molecular testing for EGFR mutations to should be performed when adjuvant TKI therapy is a consideration for 
NSCLC stage IB-IIIA. While the testing process may be technically easier on a resected specimen, initial diagnostic biopsy specimens are 
also acceptable for testing for this indication. on diagnostic biopsy or surgical resection sample to ensure the EGFR mutation results are 
available for adjuvant treatment decisions for patients with stage IIB-IIIA or high risk stage IB-IIA NSCLC.
◊ Diamond 3 modified: Many of the less commonly observed alterations in EGFR, which cumulatively account for ~10% of EGFR-mutation 
positive NSCLC (ie, exon 19 insertions, p.L861Q, p.G719X, p.S768I) are also associated with responsiveness to certain EGFR TKIs 
therapy, such as osimertinib and afatinib, and should be considered on a mutation-specific basis, when possible although the number of 
studied patients is lower.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-H 3 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 2: EGFR Gene Mutations
◊ Diamond 4; entry modified: If EGFR p.T790M is observed identified in the absence of prior EGFR TKI therapy, genetic counseling and 
possible germline genetic testing are warranted. Identification of germline EGFR p.T790M confers a high risk for lung cancer regardless 
of smoking status.
◊ Diamond 5 modified: EGFR exon 20 (EGFRex20) mutations (other than EGFR p.T790M) are a heterogeneous group, some of which are 
responsive to targeted therapy and that require detailed knowledge of the specific alteration.
– Sub-bullet 1 modified: These are generally associated with lack of response to first-, second-, and third-generation EGFR TKI 
therapy, with select exceptions: p.A763_Y764insFQEA is associated with sensitivity to TKI therapy and p.A763_Y764insLQEA may be 
associated with sensitivity to first- and third-generation TKI therapy.
– Sub-bullet 2 added: EGFRex20 insertions/duplications are associated with responsiveness to specific targeted subsequent therapy 
agents. The most commonly represented EGFRex20 insertions/duplications in the clinical studies have been insASV, insSVD, and 
insNPH, although a wide spectrum of other alterations were included. There is currently no evidence that the specific alteration type 
impacts the probability of responsiveness to this class of kinase inhibitor.
– Sub-bullet 3 modified: Because some EGFRex20 mutations are or may be sensitive to first- and third-generation inhibitors, For this 
reason, the specific sequence of EGFRex20 insertion mutations isremains important., and Some assays will identify the presence of an 
EGFRex20 insertion without specifying the sequence. In this scenario, and additional testing to further clarify the EGFRex20 insertion 
ismay be indicated for therapy selection.
– Sub-bullet 4 added: Targeted PCR-based approaches for detection of EGFR variants may under-detect EGFRex20 insertion events; 
therefore, NGS-based strategies are preferred.
◊ Diamond removed, as content added to NSCL-H 2 of 7: As use of NGS testing increases, additional EGFR variants are increasingly 
identified; however, the clinical implications of individual alterations are unlikely to be well established.
NSCL-H 5 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 1: KRAS point mutations
◊ Diamond 5 added: The presence of KRAS p.G12C is associated with responsiveness to an oral KRAS G12C inhibitor used for subsequent 
therapy, which was designed specifically for this mutation. Responsiveness to this class of inhibitor has not been prospectively 
evaluated with mutations other than KRAS p.G12C.
◊ Diamond 6 added: Testing methodologies: NGS, real-time PCR, and Sanger sequencing (ideally paired with tumor enrichment) are the 
most commonly deployed methodologies for examining KRAS mutation status.
Sub-bullet 2: MET exon 14 skipping variants
◊ Diamond 3 modified: Testing Methodologies: NGS-based testing is the primary method for detection of METex14 skipping events; RNA-
based NGS may have improved demonstrating improvement in detection. 
Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-H 6 of 7
• Bullet 1: Molecular Targets for Analysis
Sub-bullet 1: NTRK1/2/3 gene fusions
◊ Diamond 1 added: The presence of NTRK1/2/3 gene fusions is associated with responsiveness to oral TRK inhibitors.
• Bullet 3: Testing in the Setting of Progression on Targeted Therapy
Diamond 3 added: Broad genomic profiling may be the most informative approach to examining potential mechanisms of resistance, which 
may require more than one instance of such profiling over the course of an individual patient’s therapy.
• Bullet 4 added: Testing in the setting of a limited number of pulmonary nodules can aid in distinguishing separate primary lung carcinoma 
versus intrapulmonary metastatic disease.
Sub-bullet 1 added: Studies to explore tumor relatedness by testing tissue from separately sampled lesions using a broad gene coverage 
NGS approach suggest it may be superior to histopathologic assessment. 
Sub-bullet 2 added: Tumor pairs exhibiting entirely non-overlapping, unique mutations are considered clonally unrelated separate primary 
lung cancers, even if histologically similar. Tumors that share multiple (≥2) mutations are more likely to be clonally related; however, this 
may depend on the extent to which any individual mutation is extremely common in NSCLC and whether identified alterations are driver or 
passenger alterations. Results in which no mutations or only one mutation are identified are not informative for this evaluation.
NSCL-H 7 of 7
• PD-L1
Diamond one modified: Various antibody clones have been developed for IHC analysis of PD-L1 expression, and while several show 
relative equivalence, are comparable regarding intensity and proportion of cells stained, some doare not.
Diamond one; entry removed: The FDA-approved companion diagnostic for PD-L1 guides utilization of pembrolizumab in patients with 
NSCLC and is based on the tumor proportion score (TPS). TPS is the percentage of viable tumor cells showing partial or complete 
membrane staining at any intensity.
Diamond one; entry one modified: The definition of positive and negative testing is dependent on the individual antibody, clone, and 
platform deployed, which may be unique to each checkpoint inhibitor therapy. The potential for approval of multiple different assays for PD-
L1 has raised concern among both pathologists and oncologists.
Diamond one; entry two added: While some clones for PD-L1 IHC are FDA-approved for specific indications, use of multiple IHC tests is not 
necessary, provided any individual IHC test has been internally validated for comparability for categorical results against the FDA-approved 
clone. 
• Plasma Cell-Free/Circulating Tumor DNA Testing
Sub-bullet 3 modified: Studies have demonstrated cell-free tumor DNA testing to generally have very high specificity, but significantly 
compromised sensitivity, with up to a 30% false-negative rate; however, data support complementary testing to reduce turnaround time and 
increase yield of targetable alteration detection.
Sub-bullet 4 modified: Published guidelines elaborating standards for analytical performance characteristics of cell-free tumor DNA have 
not been established, and in contrast to tissue-based testing, no guidelines exist regarding the recommended performance characteristics 
of this type of testing.
Sub-bullet 6; Diamond 3 added: In the initial diagnostic setting, if tissue-based testing does not completely assess all recommended 
biomarkers owing to tissue quantity or testing methodologies available, consider repeat biopsy and/or cell-free/circulating tumor DNA 
testing.
Continued
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Updates in Version 1.2022 of the NCCN Guidelines for Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer from Version 7.2021 include:
NSCL-I
• High-level MET amplification: Tepotinib added as an available targeted agent
• Footnote * added: The definition of high-level MET amplification is evolving and may differ according to the assay used for testing. For NGS-
based results, a copy number greater than 10 is consistent with high-level MET amplification.
• Footnote ** added: For oncogenic or likely oncogenic HER2 mutations, refer to definitions at oncokb.org. 
• Reference 4 added: Le X, Paz-Ares LG, Van Meerbeeck, J, et al. Tepotinib in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with 
MET amplification (METamp). J Clin Oncol 2021;39(suppl_15):Abstract 9021.
• Reference 6 updated: Li BT, Smit EF, Goto Y, et al; DESTINY-Lung01 Trial Investigators. Trastuzumab Deruxtecan in HER2-Mutant Non-Small-
Cell Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med. 2021 Sep 18. Epub ahead of print.
NSCL-J 1 of 2
• Section added for EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X
• BRAF V600E Mutation Positive
Dabrafenib added
Vemurafenib added
• RET Rearrangement Positive 
Vandetanib removed
• Footnotes a and b modified: Monitoring During Subsequent or Maintenance Therapy; and addition of high-risk to disease sites
NSCL-K 1 of 5
• Footnote c added: If first-line systemic therapy completed before treatment for an actionable mutation, and disease has progressed, see 
Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5. (also applies to NSCL-K 2 of 5)
• Footnote d modified: Contraindications for treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may include active or previously documented autoimmune 
disease and/or current use of immunosuppressive agents, or presence of an oncogene (eg,ie, EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK 
rearrangements, RET rearrangements), which would predict lack of benefit. (also applies to NSCL-K 2 of 5)
NSCL-K 3 of 5
• Squamous Cell Carcinoma
Switch maintenance with docetaxel removed
NSCL-K 4 of 5
• Subsequent Systemic Therapy Options
Other Recommended: Albumin-bound paclitaxel added
• Progression
PS 0-2: Albumin-bound paclitaxel added as a category 2B.
• Footnote removed: The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-L1 
expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK+ NSCLC.
ST-3
• Footnote ** added: The staging of tumor size in the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 7th Edition is based on the total tumor size (invasive and 
lepidic/noninvasive); whereas, in the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 8th Edition, staging is based on invasive size only for non-mucinous 
adenocarcinoma. However, in mucinous adenocarcinoma, the total tumor size is used.
UPDATES
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
LUNG CANCER PREVENTION AND SCREENING
• Lung cancer is a unique disease in that the major etiologic agent is an addictive product that is made and promoted by an industry. 
Approximately 85% to 90% of cases are caused by voluntary or involuntary (second-hand) cigarette smoking. Reduction of lung cancer 
mortality will require effective public health policies to prevent initiation of smoking, U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) oversight of 
tobacco products, and other tobacco control measures.
• Persistent smoking is associated with second primary cancers, treatment complications, drug interactions, other tobacco-related medical 
conditions, diminished quality of life, and reduced survival. 
• Reports from the Surgeon General on both active smoking (http://www.cdc.gov/tobacco/data_statistics/sgr/2004/pdfs/executivesummary.pdf)  
and second-hand smoke show that both cause lung cancer. The evidence shows a 20% to 30% increase in the risk for lung cancer from  
second-hand smoke exposure associated with living with a smoker (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/books/NBK44324/).  
Every person should be informed of the health consequences, addictive nature, and mortal threat posed by tobacco consumption and 
exposure to tobacco smoke, and effective legislative, executive, administrative, or other measures should be contemplated at the appropriate 
governmental level to protect all persons from exposure to tobacco smoke.
• Further complicating this problem, the delivery system of lung carcinogens also contains the highly addictive substance, nicotine. 
Reduction of lung cancer mortality will require widespread implementation of Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) 
Guidelines (http://www.ahrq.gov/professionals/clinicians-providers/guidelines-recommendations/tobacco/index.html) to identify, counsel, 
and treat patients with nicotine habituation.
• Patients who are current or former smokers have significant risk for the development of lung cancer; chemoprevention agents are not yet 
established for these patients. When possible, these patients should be encouraged to enroll in chemoprevention trials.
• Lung cancer screening using low-dose CT (LDCT) is recommended in select high-risk smokers and former smokers (see the NCCN 
Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening).
• See the NCCN Guidelines for Smoking Cessation.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
PREV-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION RISK ASSESSMENTb
Patient factors
• Age
• Smoking history
• Previous cancer history
• Family history
• Occupational exposures
• Other lung disease (chronic obstructive Solid nodules 
pulmonary disease [COPD], pulmonary fibrosis) See Follow-up 
Incidental • Multidisciplinary • Exposure to infectious agents (eg, endemic (DIAG-2)
finding of nodule evaluationa areas of fungal infections, tuberculosis) or risk 
suspicious for • Smoking cessation factors or history suggestive of infection (eg, 
lung cancer counseling immune suppression, aspiration, infectious 
respiratory symptoms)
Radiologic factorsc,d Subsolid nodules
See Follow-up 
• Size, shape, and density of the pulmonary (DIAG-3)
nodule 
• Associated parenchymal abnormalities (eg,  
scarring or suspicion of inflammatory changes)
• Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) avidity on PET/CT 
imaging
Lung nodules in 
asymptomatic, high-risk NCCN Guidelines for Lung 
patients detected during lung Cancer Screening
cancer screening with LDCT
a Multidisciplinary evaluation including thoracic surgeons, thoracic radiologists, and pulmonologists to determine the likelihood of a cancer diagnosis and the optimal 
diagnostic or follow-up strategy.
b Risk calculators can be used to quantify individual patient and radiologic factors but do not replace evaluation by a multidisciplinary diagnostic team with substantial 
experience in the diagnosis of lung cancer.
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3).
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous imaging study.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FINDINGS FOLLOW-UPc,d,g,h
<6 mm No routine follow-up
Low riske 6–8 mm CT at 6–12 mo Stable Consider CT 
at 18–24 mo
>8 mm Consider CT at 3 mo, 
PET/CT,i or biopsyj
Incidental 
finding: solid 
nodule(s) on 
chest CT <6 mm CT at 12 mo 
(optional) Stable No routine follow-up
High riskf 6–8 mm CT at 6–12 mo Stable Repeat CT at  
18–24 mo
>8 mm Consider CT at 3 mo, 
PET/CT,i or biopsyj
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3). i PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. A positive PET result is defined 
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous as a standardized uptake value (SUV) in the lung nodule greater than the baseline 
imaging study. mediastinal blood pool. A positive PET scan finding can be caused by infection or 
e Low risk = minimal or absent history of smoking or other known risk factors. inflammation, including absence of lung cancer with localized infection, presence 
f High risk = history of smoking or other known risk factors. Known risk factors include of lung cancer with associated (eg, postobstructive) infection, and presence of lung 
history of lung cancer in a first-degree relative; exposure to asbestos, radon, or cancer with related inflammation (eg, nodal, parenchymal, pleural). A false-negative 
uranium. PET scan can be caused by a small nodule, low cellular density (nonsolid nodule or 
g Non-solid (ground-glass) nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent ground-glass opacity [GGO]), or low tumor avidity for FDG (eg, adenocarcinoma in 
adenocarcinoma. situ [previously known as bronchoalveolar carcinoma], carcinoid tumor).
h Adapted from Fleischner Society Guidelines: MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo j If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary 
JM, et al. Guidelines for management of incidental pulmonary nodules detected evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and 
on CT images: From the Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology 2017;284:228-243. interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient 
©Radiological Society of North America. Fleischner Society Guidelines do not direct approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult and 
whether or not contrast is necessary or if an LDCT is appropriate. LDCT is preferred that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. (IJsseldijk MA, 
unless there is a reason for contrast enhancement for better diagnostic resolution. et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.) 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FINDINGS FOLLOW-UPc,d,g,h
Solitary pure <6 mm No routine follow-up
ground-glass CT at 6–12 mo to confirm no growth or 
nodules ≥6 mm development of a solid component, then 
CT every 2 y until 5 y
Incidental 
finding: Solitary <6 mm No routine follow-up
subsolid part-solid 
nodule(s) • CT at 3–6 mo to confirm no growth or change in solid 
nodules component, then annual CT for 5 y
on chest CT ≥6 mm
• If solid component ≥6 mm, consider PET/CTi or biopsyj
<6 mm • CT at 3–6 mo
If stable, consider CT at 2 and 4 y
Multiple 
subsolid 
nodules • CT at 3–6 mo
≥6 mm • Subsequent management 
based on most 
suspicious nodule(s)
i PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. A positive PET result is defined 
as a SUV in the lung nodule greater than the baseline mediastinal blood pool. A 
positive PET scan finding can be caused by infection or inflammation, including 
absence of lung cancer with localized infection, presence of lung cancer with 
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3). associated (eg, postobstructive) infection, and presence of lung cancer with related 
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous inflammation (eg, nodal, parenchymal, pleural). A false-negative PET scan can be 
imaging study. caused by a small nodule, low cellular density (nonsolid nodule or GGO), or low tumor 
g Non-solid (ground-glass) nodules may require longer follow-up to exclude indolent avidity for FDG (eg, adenocarcinoma in situ [previously known as bronchoalveolar 
adenocarcinoma. carcinoma], carcinoid tumor).
h Adapted from Fleischner Society Guidelines: MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo j If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary 
JM, et al. Guidelines for management of incidental pulmonary nodules detected evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and 
on CT images: From the Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology 2017;284:228-243. interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient 
©Radiological Society of North America. Fleischner Society Guidelines do not direct approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult and 
whether or not contrast is necessary or if an LDCT is appropriate. LDCT is preferred that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. (IJsseldijk MA, 
unless there is a reason for contrast enhancement for better diagnostic resolution. et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION
• Patients with a strong clinical suspicion of stage I or II lung cancer (based on risk factors and radiologic appearance) do not require a biopsy 
before surgery.
A biopsy adds time, costs, and procedural risk and may not be needed for treatment decisions.
A preoperative biopsy may be appropriate if a non-lung cancer diagnosis is strongly suspected that can be diagnosed by core biopsy or 
fine-needle aspiration (FNA).
A preoperative biopsy may be appropriate if an intraoperative diagnosis appears difficult or very risky.1
If a preoperative tissue diagnosis has not been obtained, then an intraoperative diagnosis (ie, wedge resection, needle biopsy) is necessary 
before lobectomy, bilobectomy, or pneumonectomy.1
• Bronchoscopy should preferably be performed during the planned surgical resection, rather than as a separate procedure.
Bronchoscopy is required before surgical resection (NSCL-2).
A separate bronchoscopy may not be needed for treatment decisions before the time of surgery and adds time, costs, and procedural risk.
A preoperative bronchoscopy may be appropriate if a central tumor requires pre-resection evaluation for biopsy, surgical planning (eg, 
potential sleeve resection), or preoperative airway preparation (eg, coring out an obstructive lesion).
• Invasive mediastinal staging is recommended before surgical resection for most patients with clinical stage I or II lung cancer (NSCL-2).
Patients should preferably undergo invasive mediastinal staging (mediastinoscopy) as the initial step before the planned resection 
(during the same anesthetic procedure), rather than as a separate procedure. For patients undergoing endobronchial ultrasound (EBUS)/ 
endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) staging, this may require a separate procedure to allow evaluation if onsite rapid cytology interpretation is 
not available.
A separate staging procedure adds time, costs, coordination of care, inconvenience, and an additional anesthetic risk.
Preoperative invasive mediastinal staging may be appropriate for a strong clinical suspicion of N2 or N3 nodal disease or when 
intraoperative cytology or frozen section analysis is not available.
1 Patients require tissue confirmation of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) before a lobectomy, bilobectomy, or pneumonectomy. If a preoperative or intraoperative 
tissue diagnosis appears risky or unreliable, multidisciplinary evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and interventional pulmonology 
is recommended to determine the safest and most efficient approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult and that the patient can 
proceed with anatomic resection without tissue confirmation.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-A
1 OF 3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION
• In patients with suspected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), many techniques are available for tissue diagnosis. 
Diagnostic tools that should be routinely available include:
◊ Sputum cytology
◊ Bronchoscopy with biopsy and transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA)
◊ Image-guided transthoracic needle core biopsy (preferred) or FNA 
◊ Thoracentesis
◊ Mediastinoscopy
◊ Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) and open surgical biopsy
Diagnostic tools that provide important additional strategies for biopsy include:
◊ EBUS–guided biopsy 
◊ EUS–guided biopsy
◊ Navigational bronchoscopy
◊ Robotic bronchoscopy
• The preferred diagnostic strategy for an individual patient depends on the size and location of the tumor, the presence of mediastinal or 
distant disease, patient characteristics (such as pulmonary pathology and/or other significant comorbidities), and local experience and 
expertise. 
Factors to be considered in choosing the optimal diagnostic step include:
◊ Anticipated diagnostic yield (sensitivity)
◊ Diagnostic accuracy including specificity and particularly the reliability of a negative diagnostic study (ie, true negative)
◊ Adequate volume of tissue specimen for diagnosis and molecular testing
◊ Invasiveness and risk of procedure
◊ Efficiency of evaluation
– Access and timeliness of procedure
– Concomitant staging is beneficial, because it avoids additional biopsies or procedures. It is preferable to biopsy the pathology that 
would confer the highest stage (ie, to biopsy a suspected metastasis or mediastinal lymph node rather than the pulmonary lesion). 
Therefore, PET/CT imaging is frequently best performed before a diagnostic biopsy site is chosen in cases of high clinical suspicion 
for aggressive, advanced-stage tumors.
◊ Technologies and expertise available
◊ Tumor viability at proposed biopsy site from PET/CT imaging
Decisions about the optimal diagnostic steps for suspected stage I to III lung cancer should be made by thoracic radiologists, 
interventional radiologists, and thoracic surgeons who devote a significant portion of their practice to thoracic oncology. Multidisciplinary 
evaluation should also include a pulmonologist or thoracic surgeon with expertise in advanced bronchoscopic techniques for diagnosis.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-A
2 OF 3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF DIAGNOSTIC EVALUATION
The least invasive biopsy with the highest yield is preferred as the first diagnostic study.
◊ Patients with central masses and suspected endobronchial involvement should undergo bronchoscopy.
◊ Patients with peripheral (outer one-third) nodules may benefit from navigational bronchoscopy, radial EBUS, or transthoracic needle 
aspiration (TTNA).
◊ Patients with suspected nodal disease should be biopsied by EBUS, EUS, navigational bronchoscopy, or mediastinoscopy.
– EBUS provides access to nodal stations 2R/2L, 4R/4L, 7, 10R/10L, and other hilar nodal stations if necessary.
– An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a clinically (PET and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent 
mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection.
– EUS–guided biopsy provides additional access to stations 5, 7, 8, and 9 lymph nodes if these are clinically suspicious.
– TTNA and anterior mediastinotomy (ie, Chamberlain procedure) provide additional access to anterior mediastinal (stations 5 and 6) 
lymph nodes if these are clinically suspicious. If TTNA is not possible due to proximity to aorta, VATS biopsy is also an option. 
◊ EUS also provides reliable access to the left adrenal gland.
◊ Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE), when available, helps to increase diagnostic and molecular yield. 
◊ Lung cancer patients with an associated pleural effusion should undergo thoracentesis and cytology. A negative cytology result on  
initial thoracentesis does not exclude pleural involvement. An additional thoracentesis and/or thoracoscopic evaluation of the pleura 
should be considered before starting curative intent therapy.
◊ Patients suspected of having a solitary site of metastatic disease should have tissue confirmation of that site if feasible.
◊ Patients suspected of having metastatic disease should have confirmation from one of the metastatic sites if feasible.
◊ Patients who may have multiple sites of metastatic disease—based on a strong clinical suspicion—should have biopsy of the primary 
lung lesion or mediastinal lymph nodes if it is technically difficult or very risky to biopsy a metastatic site.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-A
3 OF 3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PATHOLOGIC INITIAL EVALUATION CLINICAL STAGE
DIAGNOSIS 
OF NSCLC Stage IA, peripherald (T1abc, N0) Pretreatment 
Evaluation (NSCL-2)
Stage IB, peripherald (T2a, N0);  
• Pathology reviewa Stage I, centrald (T1abc–T2a, N0);  Pretreatment 
• H&P (include performance  Stage II (T1abc–T2ab, N1; T2b, N0); Evaluation (NSCL-3)
status + weight loss)b Stage IIB (T3, N0)e; Stage IIIA (T3, N1)
• CT chest and upper  
abdomen with contrast, Stage IIBf (T3 invasion, N0); Pretreatment 
including adrenals Stage IIIAf (T4 extension, N0–1; T3, N1; T4, N0–1) Evaluation (NSCL-5)
• CBC, platelets
• Chemistry profile Stage IIIAf (T1–2, N2); Stage IIIB (T3, N2) Pretreatment 
Evaluation (NSCL-8)
• Smoking cessation advice, 
counseling, and  Separate pulmonary nodule(s) (Stage IIB, IIIA, IV) Pretreatment 
pharmacotherapy Evaluation (NSCL-8)
NSCLC Use the 5 A’s Framework:  
Ask, Advise, Assess,  Multiple lung cancers Treatment (NSCL-10)
Assist, Arrange 
http://www.ahrq.gov/clinic/ Stage IIIBf (T1–2, N3); Stage IIIC (T3, N3) Pretreatment 
tobacco/5steps.htm Evaluation (NSCL-12)
• Integrate palliative carec  
NCCN Guidelines for Stage IIIBf (T4, N2); Stage IIIC (T4, N3) Pretreatment 
Palliative Care Evaluation (NSCL-13)
• For tools to aid in the 
optimal assessment and Stage IVA (M1a)c (pleural or pericardial effusion) Pretreatment 
Evaluation (NSCL-13)
management of older adults, 
see the NCCN Guidelines for Stage IVA (M1b)c Pretreatment 
Older Adult Oncology Evaluation (NSCL-14)
Stage IVB (M1c)c disseminated metastases Systemic 
Therapy (NSCL-18)
d Based on the CT of the chest: Peripheral = outer third of lung; Central = inner two 
a Principles of Pathologic Review (NSCL-A). thirds of lung.
b Enhanced frailty or geriatric assessments may predict complications better e T3, N0 related to size or satellite nodules.
following treatment modalities, particularly surgery. A preferred frailty assessment f For patients considered to have stage IIB and stage III tumors, where more than 
system has not been established. one treatment modality (surgery, radiation therapy, or chemotherapy) is usually 
c Temel JS, et al. N Engl J Med 2010;363:733-742. considered, a multidisciplinary evaluation should be performed.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL ASSESSMENT PRETREATMENT EVALUATIONg INITIAL TREATMENT
Surgical exploration 
and resectionk + 
Operable mediastinal lymph Adjuvant 
node dissection or Treatment 
systematic lymph (NSCL-4)
Negative node sampling
mediastinal 
nodes
• Pulmonary function tests 
(PFTs) (if not previously Medically Definitive RT, preferably  
inoperablek stereotactic ablative Surveillance 
done) radiotherapy (SABR)l,m,n (NSCL-16)
Stage IA • Bronchoscopy 
(peripheral T1abc, N0) (intraoperative preferred)
• Consider pathologic 
mediastinal lymph node 
evaluationh,i
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not 
previously done) Positive 
mediastinal Stage IIIA/IIIB (NSCL-8) or 
nodes Stage IIIB/IIIC (NSCL-12)
g Testing is not listed in order of priority and is dependent on clinical circumstances, 
institutional processes, and judicious use of resources.
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
clinically (PET and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent m Image-guided thermal ablation (IGTA) therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, 
mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection. radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not receiving SABR or 
i There is low likelihood of positive mediastinal lymph nodes when these nodes are definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D).
CT and PET negative in solid tumors <1 cm and purely non-solid tumors <3 cm. n If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary 
Thus, pre-resection pathologic mediastinal evaluation is optional in these settings. evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and 
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient 
findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult 
PET/CT scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic and that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. 
confirmation. (IJsseldijk MA, et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATIONg INITIAL TREATMENT
ASSESSMENT Surgical exploration 
and resectionk,p,q + 
Operable mediastinal lymph node Adjuvant 
dissection or systematic Treatment (NSCL-4)
lymph node sampling Consider 
Negative 
mediastinal Definitive RT, adjuvant 
• PFTs (if not previously 
nodes N0 preferably  chemotherapyr Surveillance 
Stage IB (peripheral done) SABRl,n for high-risk (NSCL-16)
T2a, N0) • Bronchoscopy stages  
Stage I (central • Pathologic mediastinal Medically IB–IIBs
T1abc–T2a, N0) lymph node inoperablek Durvalumabt,u   
Stage II (T1abc–2ab, evaluationh  
N1; T2b, N0) • FDG PET/CT scanj (if (category 1  
N1 Definitive 
Stage IIB (T3, N0)e not previously done) chemoradiationl,t stage III; Surveillance 
category 2A (NSCL-16)
Stage IIIA (T3, N1) • Brain MRI with 
contrasto (Stage II, IIIA) stage II)
(Stage IB [optional]) Positive 
mediastinal Stage IIIA/IIIB (NSCL-8) or 
nodes Stage IIIB/IIIC (NSCL-12)
e T3, N0 related to size or satellite nodules.
g Testing is not listed in order of priority and is dependent on clinical circumstances, 
institutional processes, and judicious use of resources.
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a p After surgical evaluation, patients likely to receive adjuvant chemotherapy may be 
clinically (PET and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent treated with induction chemotherapy as an alternative.
mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection. q Test for EGFR mutation (stages IB–IIIA) and PD-L1 status (stages II–IIIA) 
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan on surgical tissue or biopsy. Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis 
findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If (NSCL-H).
PET/CT scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E).
confirmation. s Examples of high-risk factors may include poorly differentiated tumors (including 
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B). lung neuroendocrine tumors [excluding well-differentiated neuroendocrine 
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C). tumors]), vascular invasion, wedge resection, tumors >4 cm, visceral pleural 
n If empiric therapy is contemplated without tissue confirmation, multidisciplinary involvement, and unknown lymph node status (Nx). These factors independently 
evaluation that at least includes interventional radiology, thoracic surgery, and may not be an indication and may be considered when determining treatment 
interventional pulmonology is required to determine the safest and most efficient with adjuvant chemotherapy. 
approach for biopsy, or to provide consensus that a biopsy is too risky or difficult t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
and that the patient can proceed with therapy without tissue confirmation. u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical 
(IJsseldijk MA, et al. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:583-595.) resection.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FINDINGS AT SURGERY ADJUVANT TREATMENT
Margins negative (R0)v Observe
Stage IA (T1abc, N0) Reresection (preferred) 
Margins positive (R1, R2)v or
RTl (category 2B)
Observe 
Margins negative (R0)v or  
Chemotherapyr for high-risk patientss and osimertinibr 
Stage IB (T2a, N0) (EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R)w 
Reresection (preferred) ± chemotherapyr
Margins positive (R1, R2)v or
RTl
Observe 
Margins negative (R0)v or  
Chemotherapyr for high-risk patientss and atezolizumabr,y 
Stage IIA (T2b, N0) or osimertinibr (EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R)w
Reresection (preferred) ± chemotherapyr,y Surveillance 
Margins positive (R1, R2)v or (NSCL-16)
RTl ± chemotherapyr
Margins negative (R0)v Chemotherapyr (category 1) and atezolizumabr,y or 
Stage IIB (T1abc–T2a, N1) osimertinibr (EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R)w
Stage IIB (T3, N0; T2b, N1) Reresection + chemotherapyr 
R1v or 
Margins positive Chemoradiationl (sequentialr or concurrentt)
Reresection + chemotherapyr
R2v or 
Concurrent chemoradiationl,t
Chemotherapyr (category 1) and atezolizumabr,y
Margins negative (R0)v or osimertinibr (EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R)w or
Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2; T3, N1) Sequential chemotherapyr and consider RTl
Stage IIIB (T3, N2) R1v Chemoradiationl (sequentialr or concurrentt)
Margins positive
Footnotes, NSCL-4A R2v Concurrent chemoradiationl,t 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
FOOTNOTES
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E).
s Examples of high-risk factors may include poorly differentiated tumors (including lung neuroendocrine tumors [excluding well-differentiated neuroendocrine tumors]), 
vascular invasion, wedge resection, tumors >4 cm, visceral pleural involvement, and unknown lymph node status (Nx). These factors independently may not be an 
indication and may be considered when determining treatment with adjuvant chemotherapy. 
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
v R0 = no residual tumor, R1 = microscopic residual tumor, R2 = macroscopic residual tumor.
w For patients with EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy.
x Increasing size is an important variable when evaluating the need for adjuvant chemotherapy.
y For patients with PD-L1 ≥1% NSCLC who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-4A
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATION CLINICAL EVALUATION
ASSESSMENT
Superior sulcus tumor Treatment (NSCL-6)
Chest wall Treatment (NSCL-7)
• PFTs (if not previously done)
• Bronchoscopy
• Pathologic mediastinal lymph Proximal airway 
node evaluationh or mediastinum Treatment (NSCL-7)
Stage IIB (T3 invasion, N0) • Brain MRI with contrasto
Stage IIIA (T4 extension, • MRI with contrast of spine + 
N0–1; T3, N1; T4, N0–1) thoracic inlet for superior sulcus Stage IIIA (T4, N0–1) Treatment (NSCL-7)
lesions abutting the spine, 
subclavian vessels, or brachial 
plexus
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not Unresectable disease Treatment (NSCL-7)
previously done)
Positive mediastinal 
nodes Stage IIIA/IIIB (NSCL-8)
Treatment for Metastasis 
Metastatic disease limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
distant disease (NSCL-17)
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a clinically (PET 
and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection. 
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If PET/CT 
scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic confirmation.
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION INITIAL TREATMENT ADJUVANT TREATMENT
Superior 
sulcus tumor Preoperative Surgeryk,q + 
chemotherapyr  Surveillance 
(T3 invasion, concurrent 
N0–1) chemoradiationl,t and atezolizumabr,y (NSCL-16)
or osimertinibr,w
Surgeryk,q + 
Surgical chemotherapyr  
reevaluation Resectable Surveillance 
and atezolizumabr,y (NSCL-16)
Possibly Preoperative including chest 
resectablek concurrent or osimertinibr,w
chemoradiationl,t CT with or 
without contrast 
± PET/CTz Unresectable Complete definitive Surveillance 
chemoradiationl,t (NSCL-16)
Superior 
sulcus tumor 
(T4 extension, 
N0–1)
Unresectablek Definitive concurrent Durvalumabt,u Surveillance 
chemoradiationl,t (category 1) (NSCL-16)
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
q Test for EGFR mutation (stages IB–IIIA) and PD-L1 status (stages II–IIIA) on surgical tissue or biopsy. Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E).
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical resection.
w For patients with EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy.
y For patients with PD-L1 ≥1% NSCLC who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy.
z MRI with contrast of spine + thoracic inlet for superior sulcus lesions abutting the spine, subclavian vessels, or brachial plexus.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-6
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL INITIAL TREATMENT ADJUVANT TREATMENT
PRESENTATION
Chemotherapyr   
Margins Surveillance 
negative (R0)v and atezolizumabr,y 
or osimertinibr,w (NSCL-16)
Surgeryk,q Reresection + chemotherapyr  
(preferred)
R1v or Surveillance 
Chemoradiationl  (NSCL-16)
Chest wall, Margins (sequentialr or concurrentt)
proximal airway, positive
or mediastinum Reresection + chemotherapyr  
(T3 invasion, N0–1 or R2v or Surveillance 
Resectable T4 Concurrent chemoradiationl,t (NSCL-16)
extension, N0–1)
Margins 
Stage IIIA (T4, N0–1) Surgical Observe Surveillance 
Concurrent negative (R0)v (NSCL-16)
chemoradiationl,t reevaluation 
or including Surgeryk
Chemotherapyr chest CT ± 
PET/CT Margins positive Reresection  Surveillance 
(R1, R2)v and/or RT boost (NSCL-16)
Stage IIIA (T4, N0–1) Definitive concurrent Durvalumabt,u Surveillance 
Unresectable chemoradiationl,t (category 1) (category 1) (NSCL-16)
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
q Test for EGFR mutation (stages IB–IIIA) and PD-L1 status (stages II–IIIA) on surgical tissue or biopsy. Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E).
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical resection.
v R0 = no residual tumor, R1 = microscopic residual tumor, R2 = macroscopic residual tumor.
w For patients with EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy.
y For patients with PD-L1 ≥1% NSCLC who received previous adjuvant chemotherapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATION MEDIASTINAL BIOPSY FINDINGS
ASSESSMENT AND RESECTABILITY
N2, N3 nodes negative Treatment
T1–3, N0–1 (NSCL-9)
• PFTs (if not previously done)
• Bronchoscopy
• Pathologic mediastinal lymph node N2 nodes positive, M0 Treatment (NSCL-9)
Stage IIIA (T1–2, N2)
Stage IIIB (T3, N2) evaluationh
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not previously 
done) N3 nodes positive, M0 Stage IIIB (NSCL-12)
• Brain MRI with contrasto
Treatment for Metastasis 
Metastatic disease limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
distant disease (NSCL-17)
Separate pulmonary 
nodule(s), same lobe  
(T3, N0–1) or ipsilateral  Treatment (NSCL-10)
non-primary lobe (T4, N0–1)
• PFTs (if not previously done)
• Bronchoscopy 
Separate pulmonary • Pathologic mediastinal lymph node Stage IVA (N0, M1a): 
nodule(s) evaluationh Contralateral lung Treatment (NSCL-10)
(Stage IIB, IIIA, IV) • Brain MRI with contrasto (solitary nodule)
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not previously 
done)
Extrathoracic Treatment for Metastasis 
metastatic disease limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
distant disease (NSCL-17)
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a clinically (PET 
and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection. 
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If PET/CT 
scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic confirmation.
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-8
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
MEDIASTINAL BIOPSY INITIAL TREATMENT ADJUVANT TREATMENT
FINDINGS
Surgical resectionk 
+ mediastinal lymph 
Resectablek,p
T1–3, N0–1 node dissection or Adjuvant Treatment (NSCL-4)
(including T3 systematic lymph 
with multiple node sampling
nodules in 
same lobe) Medically Treatment according to 
inoperable clinical stage (NSCL-3)
Definitive concurrent Durvalumabt,u Surveillance 
T1–2, T3 chemoradiationl,t (category 1) (category 1) (NSCL-16)
(other than 
invasive), or No apparent • Surgeryk Surveillance 
N2 nodes progression • Consider RTl (NSCL-16)
positive, M0 Induction  
chemotherapyr,aa ± RTl
Local RTl (if feasible) ± chemotherapyr
Progression Treatment for Metastasis 
Systemic limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
distant disease (NSCL-17)
T3 
(invasion), Definitive concurrent Durvalumabt,u Surveillance 
N2 nodes chemoradiationl,t (category 1) (NSCL-16)
positive, M0
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
p After surgical evaluation, patients likely to receive adjuvant chemotherapy may be treated with induction chemotherapy as an alternative.
r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E).
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical resection.
aa Chest CT with contrast and/or PET/CT to evaluate progression.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-9
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION ADJUVANT TREATMENT
N0–1 Chemotherapyr Surveillance 
Separate pulmonary (NSCL-16)
nodule(s), same lobe 
(T3, N0–1), or Margins negative Chemotherapyr (category 1) 
Surgeryk,p or Surveillance 
ipsilateral non-primary (R0)v Sequential chemotherapyr + RTl (NSCL-16)
lobe (T4, N0–1) N2
Margins R1v Chemoradiationl (sequentialr Surveillance 
or concurrentt) (NSCL-16)
positive
R2v Concurrent Surveillance 
Stage IVA (N0, M1a): chemoradiationl,t (NSCL-16)
Contralateral lung Treat as two primary lung 
(solitary nodule) tumors if both curable Evaluation (NSCL-1)
Disease 
Suspected multiple • Chest CT with outside 
lung cancers (based on contrast Systemic Therapy for Metastatic Disease (NSCL-18)
of chest
the presence of biopsy- • FDG PET/CT scan 
proven synchronous (if not previously N0–1 Initial Treatment 
No disease Pathologic (NSCL-11)
lesions or history of done)j
lung cancer)bb,cc • Brain MRI with outside of mediastinal 
contrasto chest lymph node Systemic Therapy 
evaluationh N2–3 for Metastatic Disease 
(NSCL-18)
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, v R0 = no residual tumor, R1 = microscopic residual tumor, R2 = macroscopic 
EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a residual tumor.
clinically (PET and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent bb Lesions with different cell types (eg, squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma) 
mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection. are usually different primary tumors. This analysis may be limited by small biopsy 
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan samples. However, lesions of the same cell type are not necessarily metastases. 
findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If Single contralateral lung nodules with clinical, radiologic, or pathologic features 
PET/CT scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic suggestive of a synchronous primary lung cancer (eg, long disease-free survival, 
confirmation. ground glass components, different histologic characteristics) that are amenable 
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B). to local therapy should be considered as probable separate primary cancers and 
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C). eligible for local therapy (NSCL-11). Multiple studies suggest that next-generation 
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast. sequencing (NGS) testing with broad gene coverage may allow for unambiguous 
p After surgical evaluation, patients likely to receive adjuvant chemotherapy may be determination of clonal relatedness among separate lung nodules. 
treated with induction chemotherapy as an alternative. cc For guidance regarding the evaluation, workup, and management of subsolid 
r Systemic Therapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy (NSCL-E). pulmonary nodules, please see the diagnostic evaluation of a nodule suspicious 
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F). for lung cancer (DIAG-1).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-10
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL INITIAL TREATMENT
PRESENTATION
Low risk of 
becoming Observation Surveillance 
symptomaticdd (NSCL-16)
Multiple 
lesions
Parenchymal sparing 
High risk of resection (preferred)k,ee
becoming Definitive or
Asymptomatic symptomaticdd local therapy Radiationl Surveillance 
possible or (NSCL-16)
Image-guided thermal 
Multiple Solitary lesion ablation (IGTA)m
lung (metachronous 
cancers disease) Therapy for 
(N0–1) Palliative Recurrence and 
Definitive chemotherapy ± local Metastasis (NSCL-17)
local therapy palliative therapy or
Symptomatic not possible or Systemic Therapy for 
Observe Metastatic Disease 
(NSCL-18)
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D).
dd Lesions at low risk of becoming symptomatic can be observed (eg, small subsolid nodules with slow growth). However, if the lesion(s) becomes symptomatic or 
becomes high risk for producing symptoms (eg, subsolid nodules with accelerating growth or increasing solid component or increasing FDG uptake, even while small), 
treatment should be considered.
ee Lung-sparing resection is preferred, but tumor distribution and institutional expertise should guide individual treatment planning. Patients should be evaluated in a 
multidisciplinary setting (ie, surgery, radiation oncology, medical oncology, interventional oncology).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATION INITIAL TREATMENT
ASSESSMENT
• PFTs (if not previously 
done)
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if N3 negative Initial treatment for stage I–IIIA (NSCL-9)
not previously done)
• Brain MRI with contrasto
Stage IIIB • Pathologic confirmation 
(T1–2, N3) of N3 disease by: Definitive concurrent 
Mediastinoscopy N3 positive chemoradiationl,t Durvalumabt,u 
 Surveillance 
Stage IIIC 
Supraclavicular lymph (category 1) (category 1) (NSCL-16)
(T3, N3) node biopsy 
Thoracoscopy 
Needle biopsy Treatment for Metastasis 
Mediastinotomy Metastatic disease limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
EUS biopsy distant disease (NSCL-17)
EBUS biopsy
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If PET/CT 
scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic confirmation.
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical resection.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-12
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATION INITIAL TREATMENT
ASSESSMENT Ipsilateral  
mediastinal 
node negative Treatment for Stage IIIA (NSCL-7)
Contralateral (T4, N0–1)
mediastinal 
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not node negative Ipsilateral  Definitive 
previously done) mediastinal concurrent Durvalumabt,u 
• Brain MRI with contrasto node positive chemoradiationl,t (category 1)
• Pathologic confirmation  (T4, N2) (category 1)
Stage IIIB of N2–3 disease by either:
(T4, N2) Mediastinoscopy Contralateral  
Stage IIIC Supraclavicular lymph mediastinal Definitive concurrent Durvalumabt,u 
chemoradiationl,t Surveillance 
(T4, N3) node biopsy node positive
Thoracoscopy (T4, N3) (category 1) (category 1) (NSCL-16)
Needle biopsy 
Mediastinotomy
EUS biopsy See Treatment for Metastasis 
EBUS biopsy Metastatic disease limited sites (NSCL-14) or 
distant disease (NSCL-17)
• FDG PET/CT scanj (if not 
previously done)
Stage IVA, • Brain MRI with contrasto Negativeff Treatment according to TNM stage
M1a: pleural • Biomarker testing  
or pericardial (NSCL-18) Local therapy if necessary (eg, 
effusion • Thoracentesis or pleurodesis, ambulatory small catheter 
pericardiocentesis ± Positiveff drainage, pericardial window) + 
thoracoscopy if thoracentesis treatment for stage IV disease solitary 
indeterminate site or distant disease (NSCL-18)
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan u Durvalumab is not recommended for patients following definitive surgical 
findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If resection.
PET/CT scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic ff Most pleural (pericardial) effusions with lung cancer are a result of the tumor. In a 
confirmation. few patients, however, multiple microscopic examinations of pleural (pericardial) 
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C). fluid are negative for tumor, and fluid is non-bloody and not an exudate. If these 
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast. elements and clinical judgment dictate that the effusion is not related to the tumor, 
t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F). the effusion should be excluded as a staging descriptor. 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-13
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRETREATMENT EVALUATION INITIAL TREATMENThh
ASSESSMENT
Stereotactic radiosurgery 
(SRS) alone
or Treatment of 
Braingg Surgical resection, 
if symptomatic or Thoracic Disease 
warranted for diagnosis, (NSCL-15)
followed by SRS or whole 
Limited brain RT (WBRT)
metastases 
confirmed
Treatment of 
Other site Thoracic Disease 
PS 0–2 (NSCL-15)
• Biomarker testing 
(NSCL-18) 
If not previously done
• Brain MRI with 
Stage IVA, contrasto Multiple Systemic Therapy for 
M1bgg • FDG PET/CT scanj metastases Metastatic Disease (NSCL-18)
• Pathologic 
confirmation of 
metastatic lesion, if 
possible
PS 3–4 Systemic Therapy for 
Metastatic Disease (NSCL-18)
j PET/CT performed skull base to knees or whole body. Positive PET/CT scan findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If PET/CT 
scan is positive in the mediastinum, lymph node status needs pathologic confirmation.
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
gg Including selected patients with stage M1c and limited number and volume of metastatic lesions amenable to definitive local therapy. Limited number is undefined but 
clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases.
hh NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-14
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
TREATMENT OF THORACIC DISEASE
• Pathologic 
mediastinal nodal 
T1–3, N0 evaluationh and 
• Surgical resectionk 
or SABRl,m 
Consider systemic 
therapy (NSCL-18)  • Pathologic Definitive local Consider systemic 
and restagingaa mediastinal nodal therapy for therapy, if not 
Definitive therapy 
for thoracic to confirm non- evaluationh and metastatic site,ii if already given 
T1–3, N1 • Chemoradiationt
disease feasible progression  not already given (NSCL-18)
or (preferred) or 
Surgical resectionk 
Proceed to 
definitive therapy or Definitive RTl 
T1–3, N2 Definitive 
T4, N0–2 chemoradiationt
Definitive therapy Systemic Therapy 
for thoracic disease for Metastatic Disease 
not feasible (NSCL-18)
h Methods for evaluation include mediastinoscopy, mediastinotomy, EBUS, 
EUS, and CT-guided biopsy. An EBUS-TBNA negative for malignancy in a 
clinically (PET and/or CT) positive mediastinum should undergo subsequent 
mediastinoscopy prior to surgical resection.
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B). t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C). aa Chest CT with contrast and/or PET/CT to evaluate progression.
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for ii Typically, RT (including SABR) or surgical resection. IGTA therapy (eg, 
select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D). receiving RT or surgery.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-15
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SURVEILLANCE AFTER COMPLETION 
OF DEFINITIVE THERAPY
No evidence of clinical/radiographic disease
• Stage I–II (primary treatment included surgery 
± chemotherapy)
H&P and chest CT ± contrast every 6 mo 
for 2–3 y, then H&P and a low-dose non– Locoregional Therapy for Recurrence 
contrast-enhanced chest CT annually recurrence and Metastasis (NSCL-17)
• Stage I–II (primary treatment included RT) or 
stage III or stage IV (oligometastatic with all 
sites treated with definitive intent)
H&P and chest CTjj ± contrast every 3–6 mo • PET/CT
for 3 y, then H&P and chest CT ± contrast Recurrence • Brain 
every 6 mo for 2 y, then H&P and a low-dose MRI with 
contrasto 
non–contrast-enhanced chest CT annually
◊ Residual or new radiographic 
abnormalities may require more frequent 
imaging
• Smoking cessation advice, counseling, and Distant Therapy for Recurrence 
pharmacotherapy metastases and Metastasis (NSCL-17)
• PET/CTkk or brain MRI is not routinely 
indicated
• Cancer Survivorship Care (NSCL-G)
o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
jj Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
kk FDG PET/CT is currently not warranted in the routine surveillance and follow-up of patients with NSCLC. However, many benign conditions (such as atelectasis, 
consolidation, and radiation fibrosis) are difficult to differentiate from neoplasm on standard CT imaging, and FDG PET/CT can be used to differentiate true malignancy 
in these settings. However, if FDG PET/CT is to be used as a problem-solving tool in patients after radiation therapy, histopathologic confirmation of recurrent disease 
is needed because areas previously treated with radiation therapy can remain FDG avid for up to 2 years.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-16
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
THERAPY FOR RECURRENCE AND METASTASIS
Any combination of the following:
Endobronchial • Laser/stent/other surgeryk ervation
obstruction • External-beam RT or brachytherapyl Obs
No evidence  or
• Photodynamic therapy of Systemic 
Resectable recurrence • Reresection (preferred)k disseminated therapy 
Locoregional  RT or SABRl,m disease (NSCL-18) • External-beam
tegory 2B)
recurrence or Mediastinal lymph No prior RT Concurrent chemoradiationl,t • Chest (ca
CT with 
symptomatic node recurrence
local disease Prior RT Systemic therapy (NSCL-18) contrast
n 
• Concurrent chemoradiationl,t • Brai
  MRI with 
Superior vena cava (if not previously given) ± SVC stent contrasto
(SVC) obstruction • External-beam RTl ± SVC stent • PET/CT
• SVC stent Evidence of Systemic 
Any combination of the following: disseminated Therapy 
• External-beam RT or brachytherapyl disease (NSCL-18)
Severe hemoptysis • Laser or photodynamic therapy or 
embolization
• Surgery
Localized symptoms Palliative external-beam RTl
Diffuse brain metastases Palliative external-beam RTl,hh Systemic 
Distant • If risk of fracture, orthopedic stabilization + Therapy 
metastases Bone metastasis palliative external-beam RTl (NSCL-18)
• Consider bisphosphonate therapy or denosumab
Limited metastasis Stage IV, M1b (NSCL-14)
Disseminated metastases Systemic Therapy (NSCL-18)
k Principles of Surgical Therapy (NSCL-B).
l Principles of Radiation Therapy (NSCL-C).
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for o If MRI is not possible, CT of head with contrast.
select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided t Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens (NSCL-F).
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D). hh NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-17
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION HISTOLOGIC BIOMARKER TESTINGmm
SUBTYPEa
• Molecular testing, including:
• Adenocarcinoma EGFR mutation (category 1), ALK (category 1),  
• Large cell KRAS, ROS1, BRAF, NTRK1/2/3, METex14 Testing 
• Establish histologic • NSCLC not skipping, RET  Results 
subtypea with otherwise Testing should be conducted as part of broad (NSCL-19)
adequate tissue for specified (NOS) molecular profilingnn
molecular testing • PD-L1 testing (category 1)
Advanced (consider rebiopsyll 
or or plasma testing if 
metastatic appropriate)
disease • Smoking cessation 
counseling
• Integrate palliative • Consider molecular testing, including:oo
carec (NCCN 
Guidelines for EGFR mutation, ALK, KRAS, ROS1, BRAF, 
Palliative Care) Squamous cell NTRK1/2/3, METex14 skipping, RET Testing 
carcinoma Testing should be conducted as part of Results 
broad molecular profilingnn (NSCL-19)
• PD-L1 testing (category 1)
nn The NCCN NSCLC Guidelines Panel strongly advises broader molecular 
profiling with the goal of identifying rare driver mutations for which effective 
drugs may already be available, or to appropriately counsel patients regarding 
the availability of clinical trials. Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular 
a Principles of Pathologic Review (NSCL-A). testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 in either a single assay 
c Temel JS, et al. N Engl J Med 2010;363:733-742. or a combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies 
ll If there is insufficient tissue to allow testing for all of EGFR, KRAS, ALK, ROS1, emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered approaches based on low prevalence 
BRAF, NTRK1/2/3, MET, and RET, repeat biopsy and/or plasma testing should of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable. Broad molecular profiling is a key 
be done. If these are not feasible, treatment is guided by available results component of the improvement of care of patients with NSCLC. Emerging 
and, if unknown, these patients are treated as though they do not have driver Biomarkers to Identify Patients for Therapies (NSCL-I).
oncogenes. oo Lam VK, et al. Clin Lung Cancer 2019;20:30-36.e3; Sands JM, et al. Lung 
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H). Cancer 2020;140:35-41.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-18
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
TESTING RESULTSll,mm
EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R mutation positive NSCL-20
EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X mutation positive NSCL-23
EGFR exon 20 insertion mutation positive NSCL-24
KRAS G12C mutation positive NSCL-25
ALK rearrangement positive NSCL-26
ROS1 rearrangement positive NSCL-29
BRAF V600E mutation positive NSCL-31
NTRK1/2/3 gene fusion positive NSCL-32
METex14 skipping mutation positive NSCL-33
RET rearrangement positive NSCL-34
PD-L1 ≥50% and negative for actionable molecular biomarkers above NSCL-35
PD-L1 ≥1%–49% and negative for actionable molecular biomarkers above NSCL-36
PD-L1 <1% and negative for actionable molecular biomarkers above NSCL-37
ll If there is insufficient tissue to allow testing for all of EGFR, KRAS, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, NTRK1/2/3, MET, and RET, repeat biopsy and/or plasma testing should be 
done. If these are not feasible, treatment is guided by available results and, if unknown, these patients are treated as though they do not have driver oncogenes.
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-19
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EGFR EXON 19 DELETION OR L858R MUTATIONSmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp
Preferred
Osimertinibqq (category 1) Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-21)
 
EGFR mutation Other Recommended
discovered Erlotinibqq (category 1) 
prior to first-line or Afatinibqq (category 1)
systemic therapy or Gefitinibqq (category 1) Progression Subsequent 
or Dacomitinibqq (category 1) Therapy (NSCL-22)
or Erlotinib + ramucirumab
EGFR exon or Erlotinib + bevacizumabrr,ss 
19 deletion 
or L858R 
mutations Complete planned systemic 
therapy,tt including 
maintenance therapy, 
EGFR mutation or interrupt, followed by 
discovered during osimertinib (preferred) Progression Subsequent 
first-line systemic or Therapy (NSCL-21)
therapy erlotinib or afatinib or gefitinib 
or dacomitinib or erlotinib + 
ramucirumab or erlotinib + Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-22)
bevacizumabrr,ss
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
rr Criteria for treatment with bevacizumab: non-squamous NSCLC, and no recent history of hemoptysis. 
ss An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for bevacizumab.
tt If systemic therapy regimen contains an immune checkpoint inhibitor, physicians should be aware of the long half-life of such drugs and data reporting adverse 
events when using osimertinib in combination with or following checkpoint inhibitors. Schoenfeld AJ, et al. Ann Oncol 2019;30:839-844; Oshima Y, et al. JAMA Oncol 
2018;4:1112-1115; Oxnard GR, et al. Ann Oncol 2020;31:507-516.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-20
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EGFR EXON 19 DELETION OR L858R MUTATIONSmm SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
• Consider definitive local therapy (eg, 
Asymptomatic SABR or surgery) for limited lesionsm,vv
• Continue osimertinib
• Consider definitive local therapy (eg, 
Progression on SRS) for limited lesionsvv
osimertinibuu Brain • Continue osimertinib Progression, see 
• NCCN Guidelines for CNS Cancers therapy for multiple 
lesions,xx,yy below
Symptomatic • Consider definitive local therapy (eg, 
Limited SABR or surgery)m
metastasesvv • Continue osimertinib 
or 
• Therapy for multiple lesions, below
Systemic
Multiple Systemic therapyxx,yy 
lesionsww Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D).
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
vv Limited number is undefined but clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases.
ww Consider a biopsy at time of progression to rule out SCLC transformation and evaluate mechanisms of resistance. NCCN Guidelines for Small Cell Lung Cancer.
xx Afatinib + cetuximab may be considered in patients with disease progression on EGFR TKI therapy. 
yy The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or 
L858R, ALK+ NSCLC.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-21
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EGFR EXON 19 DELETION OR L858R MUTATIONSmm SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
• Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SABR or surgery) 
for limited lesionsm,vv
Asymptomatic • Osimertinibqq (if T790M+) (category 1)  Progression (NSCL-21)
or  
Continue erlotinib (± ramucirumab or bevacizumabrr Progression, see 
) therapyxx,yy for 
Progressionuu,zz  or afatinib or gefitinib or dacomitinib (if T790M-) multiple lesions, 
on erlotinib (± 
T790M • Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SRS) for limited below
ramucirumab or lesionsvv
bevacizumab), testing • Osimertinibqq (if T790M+) (category 1)   Progression (NSCL-21)
afatinib, (category 1) Brainaaa or  
gefitinib, or Continue erlotinib (± ramucirumab or bevacizumabrr Progression, see 
) therapyxx,yy for 
dacomitinib or afatinib or gefitinib or dacomitinibbbb (if T790M-) multiple lesions, 
• NCCN Guidelines for CNS Cancers below
Symptomatic • Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SABR or surgery)m
• Continue erlotinib (± ramucirumab or bevacizumabrr Progression, see 
Limited ) therapyxx,yy for 
metastasesvv or afatinib or gefitinib or dacomitinib (if T790M-) multiple lesions, 
or below
Systemic • Therapy for multiple lesions, below
Osimertinibqq
T790M+  (category 1) 
Multiple (if not previously given) Progression (NSCL-21)
lesionsww,aaa Systemic therapyxx,yy  
T790M- Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select Squamous Cell Carcinoma (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT.  
Principles of Image-Guided Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D). yy The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less 
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H). effective, irrespective of PD-L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK+ 
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J). NSCLC. 
qq For performance status 0–4. zz Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered 
rr Criteria for treatment with bevacizumab: non-squamous NSCLC, and no recent history of at progression, for the T790M mutation and other genomic resistance mechanisms. If 
hemoptysis. plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly 
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare recommended. Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with 
occurs, restart TKI. plasma testing referral.
vv Limited number is undefined but clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases. aaa Consider osimertinib (regardless of T790M status) for progressive CNS disease or 
ww Consider a biopsy at time of progression to rule out SCLC transformation and evaluate leptomeningeal disease. In the Bloom study, osimertinib was used at 160 mg for patients 
mechanisms of resistance. NCCN Guidelines for Small Cell Lung Cancer. with leptomeningeal disease. 
xx Afatinib + cetuximab may be considered in patients with disease progression on EGFR TKI bbb In the randomized phase III trial of dacomitinib, patients with brain metastases were not 
therapy. eligible for enrollment. In the setting of brain metastases, consider other options.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-22
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X MUTATIONSmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp
Preferred
Afatinibqq Progression Subsequent 
or Therapy (NSCL-22)
EGFR mutation Osimertinibqq Progression Subsequent 
discovered Therapy (NSCL-21)
prior to first-line  
systemic therapy Other Recommended
Erlotinibqq 
or Gefitinibqq Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-22)
EGFR S768I, or Dacomitinibqq
L861Q, and/
or G719X 
mutations Complete planned systemic 
therapy,tt including 
maintenance therapy, or 
EGFR mutation interrupt, followed by  
discovered during afatinib (preferred) Progression Subsequent 
first-line systemic or Therapy (NSCL-22)
therapy osimertinib (preferred) Progression Subsequent 
or Therapy (NSCL-21)
erlotinib or gefitinib  
or dacomitinib Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-22)
mm  Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
tt If systemic therapy regimen contains an immune checkpoint inhibitor, physicians should be aware of the long half-life of such drugs and data reporting adverse 
events when using osimertinib in combination with or following checkpoint inhibitors. Schoenfeld AJ, et al. Ann Oncol 2019;30:839-844; Oshima Y, et al. JAMA Oncol 
2018;4:1112-1115; Oxnard GR, et al. Ann Oncol 2020;31:507-516.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-23
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EGFR EXON 20 INSERTION MUTATION POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYccc SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp 
Amivantamab-vmjwqq
Progression or
Mobocertinibqq
Progression
Systemic therapy If not received previously,
• Amivantamab-vmjwqq Systemic Therapy, 
EGFR exon Adenocarcinoma Progression Subsequenteee  
20 insertion (NSCL-K 1 of 5) Tumor or
• Mobocertinibqq (NSCL-K 4 of 5) 
mutation or response 
positive Squamous Cell evaluation or 
Carcinoma Systemic Therapy, Subsequenteee 
(NSCL-K 2 of 5) (NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Progression
Amivantamab-vmjwqq
Progression or
Mobocertinibqq
Response 4–6 Tumor 
or stable cycles response 
disease (total)ddd evaluation Response Maintenance 
or stable therapy Progression
disease (NSCL-K 3 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4. 
ccc Monitoring During Initial Therapy: Response assessment after 2 cycles, then every 2–4 cycles with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast 
or when clinically indicated. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
ddd In general, 4 cycles of initial systemic therapy (ie, with carboplatin or cisplatin) are administered prior to maintenance therapy. However, if patient is tolerating therapy 
well, consideration can be given to continue to 6 cycles.
eee Monitoring During Subsequent Therapy or Maintenance Therapy: Response assessment with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast every 
6–12 weeks. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-24
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
KRAS G12C MUTATION POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYccc SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp 
Systemic Therapy, 
PS 0–2 Subsequenteee  
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Progression Sotorasibqq Progression
Best supportive care
Systemic therapy PS 3–4 NCCN Guidelines for 
Adenocarcinoma Palliative Care
KRAS G12C (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or Tumor 
mutation Squamous Cell response 
positive Carcinoma evaluation
(NSCL-K 2 of 5)
Progression Sotorasibqq
Response 4–6 Tumor 
or stable cycles response 
disease (total)ddd evaluation Response Maintenance 
or stable therapy Progression
disease (NSCL-K 3 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4. 
ccc Monitoring During Initial Therapy: Response assessment after 2 cycles, then every 2–4 cycles with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast 
or when clinically indicated. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
ddd In general, 4 cycles of initial systemic therapy (ie, with carboplatin or cisplatin) are administered prior to maintenance therapy. However, if patient is tolerating therapy 
well, consideration can be given to continue to 6 cycles.
eee Monitoring During Subsequent Therapy or Maintenance Therapy: Response assessment with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast every 
6–12 weeks. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-25
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
ALK REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp
Preferred
Alectinibqq (category 1)
or
Brigatinibqq (category 1)
Progression Subsequent 
ALK rearrangement or  
discovered prior to Lorlatinibqq (category 1) Therapy (NSCL-27)
first-line systemic 
therapy Other Recommended
Ceritinibqq (category 1)
 
Useful in Certain 
Circumstances
ALK Crizotinibqq (category 1) Progression Subsequent 
rearrangement Therapy (NSCL-28)
positive
Complete planned 
systemic therapy, 
including maintenance 
ALK rearrangement therapy, or interrupt, 
discovered during followed by alectinib Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-27)
first-line systemic (preferred) or brigatinib 
therapy (preferred) or lorlatinib 
(preferred) or ceritinib 
or
crizotinib Progression Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-28)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-26
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
ALK REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp 
• Consider definitive local therapy 
(eg, SABR or surgery) for limited 
Asymptomatic lesionsm,vv
• Continue alectinib or brigatinib 
or ceritinib or lorlatinib
• Lorlatinib (ALK G1202R)
Progressionuu,zz • Consider definitive local therapy  
on alectinib (eg, SRS) for limited lesionsvv Progression, see 
or brigatinib • Continue alectinib or brigatinib or therapyyy for 
or ceritinib or Brain ceritinib or lorlatinib multiple lesions, 
lorlatinib • Lorlatinib (ALK G1202R) below
• NCCN Guidelines for CNS Cancers
• Consider definitive local therapy  
Symptomatic (eg, SABR or surgery)m
Limited • Continue alectinib or brigatinib or 
metastasesuu ceritinib or lorlatinib
• Lorlatinib (ALK G1202R)
Systemic • Therapy for multiple lesions, below
Lorlatinib (if not previously given)
or
Multiple lesions Systemic therapyyy  
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma  
(NSCL-K 2 of 5) 
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D).
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
vv Limited number is undefined but clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases.
yy The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK+ NSCLC.   
zz Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression for genomic resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, tissue-
based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly recommended. Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-27
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
ALK REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp 
• Consider definitive local therapy 
(eg, SABR or surgery) for limited 
lesionsm,vv
Asymptomatic • Continue crizotinib 
or  
Alectinibqq or brigatinibqq 
or ceritinibqq or lorlatinibqq
Progression
on • Consider definitive local therapy Progression, lorlatinib (if 
crizotinibuu,zz,fff (eg, SRS) for limited lesionsvv 
Brain • Alectinibqq or brigatinibqq not previously given) 
  
or ceritinibqq or lorlatinibqq or 
Systemic therapyyy  
• NCCN Guidelines for CNS Cancers Adenocarcinoma  
Symptomatic • Consider definitive local therapy (NSCL-K 1 of 5) 
Limited (eg, SABR or surgery)m or 
metastasesvv • Continue crizotinib Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
Systemic • Therapy for multiple lesions, below (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
• Alectinibqq or brigatinibqq  
or ceritinibqq or lorlatinibqq 
or
Multiple lesions • Systemic therapyyy 
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5)  
or Squamous Cell Carcinoma  
(NSCL-K 2 of 5)
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for 
select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided yy The data in the second-line setting suggest that PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D). monotherapy is less effective, irrespective of PD-L1 expression, in EGFR exon 19 
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H). deletion or L858R, ALK+ NSCLC.
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease zz Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at 
(NSCL-J). progression for genomic resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, 
qq For performance status 0–4. tissue-based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly recommended. Practitioners 
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral.
flare occurs, restart TKI. fff Patients who are intolerant to crizotinib may be switched to ceritinib, alectinib, 
vv Limited number is undefined but clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases. brigatinib, or lorlatinib. 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-28
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
ROS1 REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
Preferred
Entrectinibqq,ggg
ROS1 rearrangement or
discovered prior to Crizotinibqq Progressionuu Subsequent 
first-line systemic Therapy (NSCL-30)
therapy or 
Other Recommended
Ceritinibqq
ROS1 
rearrangement 
positive
Complete planned 
ROS1 rearrangement systemic therapy, including 
discovered during maintenance therapy, 
first-line systemic or interrupt, followed by Progressionuu Subsequent 
Therapy (NSCL-30)
therapy crizotinib (preferred) or 
entrectinibggg (preferred) 
or ceritinib
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
ggg Entrectinib may be better for patients with brain metastases.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-29
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
ROS1 REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
• Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SABR 
or surgery) for limited lesionsm,vv
Asymptomatic • Continue entrectinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib 
or  
Lorlatinib
Progressionuu,zz  • Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SRS) 
on entrectinib,  for limited lesionsvv Progression, 
crizotinib, or Brain • Entrectinib (if previously treated with Systemic therapy 
ceritinib crizotinib or ceritinib) Adenocarcinoma 
• NCCN Guidelines for CNS Cancers (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Squamous Cell 
Carcinoma  
Symptomatic • Consider definitive local therapy (eg, SABR (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
Limited or surgery)m
metastasesvv • Continue entrectinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib
• Therapy for multiple lesions, below 
Systemic
• Lorlatinib 
or
Multiple lesions • Systemic therapy options 
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
m IGTA therapy (eg, cryotherapy, microwave, radiofrequency) may be an option for select patients not receiving SABR or definitive RT. Principles of Image-Guided 
Thermal Ablation Therapy (NSCL-D).
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
vv Limited number is undefined but clinical trials have included 3 to 5 metastases.
zz Plasma or tissue-based testing via broad molecular profiling should be considered at progression for genomic resistance mechanisms. If plasma-based testing is negative, 
tissue-based testing with rebiopsy material is strongly recommended. Practitioners may want to consider scheduling the biopsy concurrently with plasma testing referral.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-30
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
BRAF V600E MUTATION POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
Preferred
Dabrafenib + trametinibqq Progression Systemic therapy 
 Adenocarcinoma 
BRAF V600E  (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
mutation discovered Useful in Certain Circumstances Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
Vemurafenibqq,hhh or dabrafenibqq,hhh
prior to first-line Progression (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
systemic therapy or
Systemic therapy 
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5)  Progression Dabrafenib + 
or Squamous Cell Carcinoma trametinibhhh
BRAF V600E (NSCL-K 2 of 5) Progression
mutation Systemic Therapy, 
positive Subsequent 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Complete planned 
BRAF V600E systemic therapy, including Systemic therapy 
mutation discovered maintenance therapy, Adenocarcinoma
during first-line or interrupt, followed by Progression (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
systemic therapy dabrafenib + trametinibhhh Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
(preferred) (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
hhh Single-agent vemurafenib or dabrafenib are treatment options if the combination of dabrafenib + trametinib is not tolerated.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-31
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
NTRK GENE FUSION POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
Preferred Systemic therapy 
Larotrectinibqq Adenocarcinoma 
or Progression (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
NTRK1/2/3 gene Entrectinibqq Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
fusion discovered  (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
prior to first-line Useful in Certain Circumstances
systemic therapy Systemic therapy 
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or Larotrectinib
Squamous Cell Carcinoma Progression or 
(NSCL-K 2 of 5) Entrectinib
NTRK1/2/3 Progression
gene fusion 
positive Systemic Therapy, 
Subsequent 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
NTRK1/2/3 gene Complete planned Systemic therapy 
fusion discovered systemic therapy, including Adenocarcinoma 
during first-line maintenance therapy, Progression (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
systemic therapy or interrupt, followed by Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
larotrectinib or entrectinib (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-32
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
METex14 SKIPPING MUTATIONmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
Preferred
Capmatinibqq
or Progressionuu Systemic therapy 
Tepotinibqq Adenocarcinoma 
(NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
METex14 skipping Useful in Certain Circumstances Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
mutation discovered Crizotinibqq Progressionuu (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
prior to first-line 
systemic therapy or Preferred
Capmatinib 
Systemic therapy or
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) Progression Tepotinib
or Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
METex14 (NSCL-K 2 of 5) Useful in Certain 
Circumstances Progression
skipping Crizotinib
mutation
Systemic Therapy, 
Subsequent 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
METex14 skipping Complete planned systemic Systemic therapy 
mutation discovered therapy, including maintenance Adenocarcinoma 
during first-line therapy, or interrupt, followed by Progressionuu (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
systemic therapy capmatinib (preferred) or tepotinib Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
(preferred) or crizotinib (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-33
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
RET REARRANGEMENT POSITIVEmm
FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp SUBSEQUENT THERAPYpp
Preferred
Selpercatinibqq
or Progressionuu
Pralsetinibqq Systemic therapy 
Adenocarcinoma 
(NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
RET rearrangement Useful in Certain Circumstances (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
discovered prior to Cabozantinibqq u
first-line systemic Progression u
therapy
Preferred
Other Recommended Selpercatinib
Systemic therapy or 
Adenocarcinoma (NSCL-K 1 of 5) Progression Pralsetinib
or Squamous Cell Carcinoma  
RET (NSCL-K 2 of 5) Useful in Certain 
Circumstances Progression
rearrangement Cabozantinib
positive Systemic Therapy, 
Subsequent 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Complete planned 
RET rearrangement systemic therapy, including Systemic therapy 
discovered during maintenance therapy, Adenocarcinoma 
first-line systemic or interrupt, followed by Progressionuu (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
therapy selpercatinib (preferred), Squamous Cell Carcinoma 
pralsetinib (preferred), (NSCL-K 2 of 5)
cabozantinib
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J).
qq For performance status 0–4.
uu Beware of flare phenomenon in subset of patients who discontinue TKI. If disease flare occurs, restart TKI.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-34
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PD-L1 POSITIVE (≥50%)mm  FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp,jjj
AND NEGATIVE FOR ACTIONABLE 
MOLECULAR BIOMARKERSiii Continuation maintenancepp
See PD-L1 expression positive • Pembrolizumab (category 1)kkk
Preferred • Pembrolizumab + pemetrexed 
(≥1%–49%) NSCL-36 • Pembrolizumab (category 1) or (category 1)lll
• (Carboplatin or cisplatin) + pemetrexed + Response • Atezolizumab and bevacizumab 
pembrolizumab (category 1) or or stable (category 1)mmm
• Atezolizumab (category 1) or disease • Atezolizumabnnn
• Cemiplimab-rwlc (category 1) • Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
Adenocarcinoma, Other Recommended (category 1)ooo
large cell,  • Carboplatin + paclitaxel + bevacizumabrr,ss • Cemiplimab-rwlc (category 1)
NSCLC NOS + atezolizumab (category 1) or
• Carboplatin + albumin-bound paclitaxel  
+ atezolizumab or Systemic Therapyppp  
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab + pemetrexed Progression (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or  
+ (carboplatin or cisplatin) (category 1) Systemic Therapy, Subsequentppp 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
PS 0–2 Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab (category 1) Continuation maintenancepp
Preferred • Pembrolizumab  
• Pembrolizumab (category 1) or Response (category 1)kkk,qqq
• Carboplatin + (paclitaxel or albumin- or stable • Atezolizumabnnn
bound paclitaxel) + pembrolizumab disease • Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(category 1) or (category 1)ooo
Squamous cell • Atezolizumab (category 1) or • Cemiplimab-rwlc (category 1)
carcinoma • Cemiplimab-rwlc (category 1)
Other Recommended 
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab + paclitaxel  Systemic Therapyppp  
Best supportive care + carboplatin (category 1) (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or  
Systemic Therapy, Subsequentppp
PS 3–4 Progression
NCCN Guidelines for Useful in Certain Circumstances  
Palliative Care • Nivolumab + ipilimumab (category 1) (NSCL-K 4 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H).
pp Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J). kkk If pembrolizumab monotherapy given.
rr Criteria for treatment with bevacizumab: non-squamous NSCLC, and no recent history of lll If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/pemetrexed or pembrolizumab/cisplatin/pemetrexed given.
hemoptysis. mmm If atezolizumab/carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumab given. 
ss An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for bevacizumab. nnn If atezolizumab/carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel or atezolizumab given (category 1 
iii Contraindications for treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may include active or previously following atezolizumab alone).
documented autoimmune disease and/or current use of immunosuppressive agents or ooo If nivolumab + ipilimumab ± chemotherapy given.
presence of an oncogene, which would predict lack of benefit. If there are contraindications, ppp If patient has not received platinum-doublet chemotherapy, refer to "systemic therapy." 
refer to NSCL-K 1 of 5 (adenocarcinoma) or NSCL-K 2 of 5 (squamous cell carcinoma). If patient received platinum chemotherapy and anti-PD-1/PD-L1, refer to “subsequent 
jjj For patients who require an urgent start to therapy but molecular testing is pending, consider therapy.” 
holding immunotherapy for one cycle, unless confirmed that no driver mutations are present. qqq If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/(paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel) given.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-35
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PD-L1 POSITIVE (≥1%–49%)mm  FIRST-LINE THERAPYpp,jjj
AND NEGATIVE FOR ACTIONABLE 
MOLECULAR BIOMARKERSiii Continuation maintenancepp
PD-L1 expression positive Preferred • Pembrolizumab (category 1)kkk
(≥50%) NSCL-35 • (Carboplatin or cisplatin) + pemetrexed + • Pembrolizumab + pemetrexed 
pembrolizumab (category 1) Response (category 1)lll
Other Recommended or stable • Atezolizumab and 
• Carboplatin + paclitaxel + disease bevacizumab (category 1)mmm
Adenocarcinoma, bevacizumabrr,ss + atezolizumab • Atezolizumabnnn
(category 1) or • Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
large cell,  
NSCLC NOS • Carboplatin + albumin-bound paclitaxel + (category 1)ooo
atezolizumab or
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab + pemetrexed + Systemic Therapyppp  
(carboplatin or cisplatin) (category 1) (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
Useful in Certain Circumstances Progression Systemic Therapy, 
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab (category 1) or Subsequentppp 
• Pembrolizumab (category 2B)rrrPS 0–2 (NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Preferred Response Continuation maintenancepp
• Carboplatin + (paclitaxel or albumin- • Pembrolizumabkkk,qqq
or stable 
bound paclitaxel) + pembrolizumab disease • Nivolumab + ipilimumab 
(category 1) (category 1)ooo
Squamous cell Other Recommended
carcinoma • Nivolumab + ipilimumab + paclitaxel + 
carboplatin (category 1) Systemic Therapyppp  
Useful in Certain Circumstances (NSCL-K 1 of 5) or 
• Nivolumab + ipilimumab (category 1) or Progression Systemic Therapy, 
Best supportive care • Pembrolizumab (category 2B)rrr Subsequentppp 
PS 3–4 NCCN Guidelines for 
Palliative Care (NSCL-K 4 of 5)
mm Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis (NSCL-H). kkk 
pp If pembrolizumab monotherapy given.
Targeted Therapy or Immunotherapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease (NSCL-J). lll If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/pemetrexed or pembrolizumab/cisplatin/pemetrexed given.
rr Criteria for treatment with bevacizumab: non-squamous NSCLC, and no recent history of mmm If atezolizumab/carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumab given. 
hemoptysis. nnn If atezolizumab/carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel given.
ss An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for bevacizumab. ooo If nivolumab + ipilimumab ± chemotherapy given.
iii Contraindications for treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may include active or previously ppp If patient has not received platinum-doublet chemotherapy, refer to "systemic therapy." 
documented autoimmune disease and/or current use of immunosuppressive agents or If patient received platinum chemotherapy and anti-PD-1/PD-L1, refer to “subsequent 
presence of an oncogene, which would predict lack of benefit. If there are contraindications, therapy.” 
refer to NSCL-K 1 of 5 (adenocarcinoma) or NSCL-K 2 of 5 (squamous cell carcinoma). qqq If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/(paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel) given.
jjj For patients who require an urgent start to therapy but molecular testing is pending, consider rrr Pembrolizumab monotherapy can be considered in PD-L1 1%–49%, in patients with poor 
holding immunotherapy for one cycle, unless confirmed that no driver mutations are present. PS or other contraindications to combination chemotherapy.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-36
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PD-L1 <1% AND NEGATIVE FOR ACTIONABLE MOLECULAR BIOMARKERS
INITIAL SYSTEMIC THERAPYccc SUBSEQUENT THERAPYeee
PS 0–2 Systemic therapy, Systemic therapy, 
Subsequent (NSCL-K 4 of 5) Progression 
(NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Progression
Best supportive care
Systemic therapy PS 3–4 See NCCN Guidelines Progression
• Adenocarcinoma, for Palliative Care
Large Cell, 
PS 0–2 NSCLC NOS  Tumor 
(NSCL-K 1 of 5) response 
• Squamous Cell evaluation
Carcinoma Progression Systemic therapy, 
(NSCL-K 2 of 5) Subsequent (NSCL-K 4 of 5)
Best supportive care Response 4–6 Tumor 
PS 3–4 See NCCN Guidelines or stable cycles response Progression
for Palliative Care disease (total)ddd evaluation
Response Maintenance 
or stable therapy 
disease (NSCL-K 3 of 5)
ccc Monitoring During Initial Therapy: Response assessment after 2 cycles, then every 2–4 cycles with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast 
or when clinically indicated. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
ddd In general, 4 cycles of initial systemic therapy (ie, with carboplatin or cisplatin) are administered prior to maintenance therapy. However, if patient is tolerating therapy 
well, consideration can be given to continue to 6 cycles.
eee Monitoring During Subsequent Therapy or Maintenance Therapy: Response assessment with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast every 
6–12 weeks. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision. 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-37
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGIC REVIEW
• Pathologic Evaluation
The purpose of the pathologic evaluation of NSCLC will vary depending on whether the sample 1) is a biopsy or cytology specimen 
intended for initial diagnosis in a case of suspected NSCLC; 2) is a resection specimen; or 3) is obtained for molecular evaluation in the 
setting of an established NSCLC diagnosis.
◊ In small biopsies or cytology specimens intended for initial diagnosis, the primary purpose is a) to make an accurate diagnosis using the 
2015 WHO classification; and b) to preserve the tissue for molecular studies, especially if the patient has advanced-stage disease.
◊ In small biopsies of poorly differentiated carcinomas, the terms "non-small cell carcinoma (NSCC)1" or "non-small cell carcinoma not 
otherwise specified (NSCC-NOS)" should be used as little as possible and only when a more specific diagnosis is not possible by 
morphology and/or special staining.
◊ The following terms are acceptable: "NSCC favor adenocarcinoma" and "NSCC favor squamous cell carcinoma." "NSCC-NOS" should be 
reserved only for cases in which immunohistochemical testing is uninformative or ambiguous (see section on Immunohistochemistry).
◊ Preservation of material for molecular testing is critical. Efforts should be undertaken to minimize block reorientation and the number of  
(IHC) stains for cases that cannot be classified on histologic examination alone (see section on Immunohistochemistry).
In resection specimens, the primary purpose is a) to classify the histologic type; and b) to determine all staging parameters, as 
recommended by the American Joint Committee on Cancer (AJCC), including tumor size, extent of invasion, adequacy of surgical margins, 
and presence or absence of lymph node metastases.
◊ The number of involved lymph node stations should be documented since it has prognostic significance (AJCC 8th ed). Direct extension 
of the primary tumor into an adjacent lymph node is considered as nodal involvement.
◊ All lobectomy specimens should be extensively dissected to search for involved lymph nodes.  
In small biopsies or cytology specimens—obtained for molecular testing in the context of an established diagnosis after progression on 
targeted therapies, the primary purpose is a) to confirm the original pathologic type with minimal use of tissue for IHC only in suspected 
small cell carcinoma transformation or a different histology; and b) to preserve material for molecular analysis.
• Formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded (FFPE) material is suitable for most molecular analyses, except bone biopsies that were previously treated 
with acid decalcifying solutions. Non-acid decalcification approaches may be successful for subsequent molecular testing. While many 
molecular pathology laboratories currently also accept cytopathology specimens such as cell blocks, direct smears, or touch preparations, 
laboratories that do not currently do so are strongly encouraged to identify approaches to testing on non-FFPE cytopathology specimens.
1 Non-small cell carcinomas (NSCC, without the L for lung) that show no clear adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma morphology or immunohistochemical 
markers are regarded as NSCC-NOS. In this setting, it is recommended that pathologists use the term NSCC rather than NSCLC, because the lack of pneumocyte 
marker expression in small biopsies or cytology leaves open the possibility of a metastatic carcinoma and the determination of a lung primary must be established 
clinically after excluding other primary sites.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-A
1 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGIC REVIEW
NSCLC Classification
• The types of NSCLC are: adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, and sarcomatoid 
carcinoma.
Squamous cell carcinoma: A malignant epithelial tumor that either shows keratinization and/or intercellular bridges, or a morphologically 
undifferentiated NSCC that expresses immunohistochemical markers of squamous cell differentiation. 
Adenocarcinoma: 
◊ For small (<3 cm), resected lesions, determining extent of invasion is critical.
– Adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS; formerly BAC): A small (≤3 cm) localized nodule with lepidic growth, mostly non-mucinous, although 
mucinous types can occur. Multiple synchronous AIS tumors can also occur.
– Minimally invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA): A small (≤3 cm) solitary adenocarcinoma with a predominantly lepidic pattern and ≤5 mm 
invasion in greatest dimension. MIA is usually non-mucinous, but rarely may be mucinous. MIA is, by definition, solitary and discrete.  
– Invasive adenocarcinoma: A malignant epithelial tumor with glandular differentiation, mucin production, or pneumocyte marker 
expression. The tumors show an acinar, papillary, micropapillary, lepidic, or solid growth pattern, with either mucin or pneumocyte 
marker expression. The invasive adenocarcinoma component should be present in at least one focus measuring >5 mm in greatest 
dimension. 
– Invasive adenocarcinoma variants: invasive mucinous adenocarcinoma, colloid adenocarcinoma, fetal adenocarcinoma, and enteric 
adenocarcinoma.
– Refer to College of American Pathologists Protocols for additional information.
Adenosquamous carcinoma: A carcinoma showing components of both squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, with each 
component constituting at least 10% of the tumor. Definitive diagnosis requires a resection specimen, although it may be suggested based 
on findings in small biopsies, cytology, or excisional biopsies. Presence of any adenocarcinoma component in a biopsy specimen that is 
otherwise squamous should trigger molecular testing.
Large cell carcinoma: Undifferentiated NSCC that lacks the cytologic, architectural, and histochemical features of small cell carcinoma, 
adenocarcinoma, or squamous cell carcinoma. The diagnosis requires a thoroughly sampled resected tumor and cannot be made on non-
resection or cytology specimens.
Sarcomatoid carcinoma is a general term that includes pleomorphic carcinoma, carcinosarcoma, and pulmonary blastoma. For this reason, 
it is best to use the specific term for these entities whenever possible rather than the general term. 
◊ Pleomorphic carcinoma is a poorly differentiated NSCC that contains at least 10% spindle and/or giant cells or a carcinoma consisting 
only of spindle and giant cells. Spindle cell carcinoma consists of an almost pure population of epithelial spindle cells, while Giant cell 
carcinoma consists almost entirely of tumor giant cells.
◊ Carcinosarcoma is a malignant tumor that consists of a mixture of NSCC and sarcoma-containing heterologous elements (eg, 
rhabdomyosarcoma, chondrosarcoma, osteosarcoma).
◊ Pulmonary blastoma is a biphasic tumor that consists of fetal adenocarcinoma (typically low grade) and primitive mesenchymal stroma.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-A
2 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGIC REVIEW
Immunohistochemistry
• Judicious use of IHC is strongly recommended to preserve tissue for molecular testing, most notably in small specimens. When 
adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinomas are poorly differentiated, the defining morphologic criteria that would allow for specific 
diagnosis may be inconspicuous or absent. In this case, IHC or mucin staining may be necessary to determine a specific diagnosis.
• In small specimens, a limited number of immunostains with one lung adenocarcinoma marker (TTF1, napsin A) and one squamous 
carcinoma marker (p40, p63) should suffice for most diagnostic problems. Virtually all tumors that lack squamous cell morphology and show 
co-expression of p63 and TTF1 are preferably classified as adenocarcinoma. A simple panel of TTF1 and p40 may be sufficient to classify 
most NSCC-NOS cases. 
•  Testing for NUT expression by IHC should be considered in all poorly differentiated carcinomas that lack glandular differentiation or specific 
etiology, particularly in non-smokers or in patients presenting at a young age, for consideration of a pulmonary NUT carcinoma. 
• IHC should be used to differentiate primary lung adenocarcinoma from squamous cell carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, metastatic 
carcinoma, and primary pleural mesothelioma (particularly for pleural specimens).
• Primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma:
In patients for whom the primary origin of the carcinoma is uncertain, an appropriate panel of immunohistochemical stains is 
recommended to assess for metastatic carcinoma to the lung.
TTF1 is a homeodomain-containing nuclear transcription protein of the NKX2 gene family that is expressed in epithelial cells of the 
embryonal and mature lung and thyroid. TTF1 immunoreactivity is seen in primary pulmonary adenocarcinoma in the majority (70%–90%) 
of non-mucinous adenocarcinoma subtypes. Metastatic adenocarcinoma to the lung is nearly always negative for TTF1 except in metastatic 
thyroid malignancies, in which case thyroglobulin and PAX8 are also positive. Rare cases of TTF1 positivity in tumors of other organs 
(gynecologic tract, pancreatobiliary) have been noted, and may be dependent on the specific TTF1 clone utilized, stressing the importance 
of correlation with clinical and radiologic features.
Napsin A—an aspartic proteinase expressed in normal type II pneumocytes and in proximal and distal renal tubules—appears to be 
expressed in >80% of lung adenocarcinomas and may be a useful adjunct to TTF1.
The panel of TTF1 (or alternatively napsin A) and p40 (or alternatively p63) may be useful in refining the diagnosis to either adenocarcinoma 
or squamous cell carcinoma in small biopsy specimens previously classified as NSCC NOS.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-A
3 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF PATHOLOGIC REVIEW
Immunohistochemistry
• IHC should be used to confirm neuroendocrine differentiation when there is morphologic evidence of neuroendocrine morphology (eg, 
speckled chromatin pattern, nuclear molding, peripheral palisading):
NCAM (CD56), chromogranin, synaptophysin, and INSM1 are used to identify neuroendocrine tumors in cases in which morphologic 
suspicion of neuroendocrine differentiation exists. 
A panel of markers is useful, but one positive marker is enough if the staining is unambiguous in more than 10% of the tumor cells. 
• Malignant mesothelioma versus pulmonary adenocarcinoma
The distinction between pulmonary adenocarcinoma and malignant mesothelioma (epithelioid type) can be made by correlation of the 
histology with the clinical impression, imaging studies, and a panel of immunomarkers.
Immunostains sensitive and specific for mesothelioma include WT-1, calretinin, CK5/6, and D2-40 (usually negative in adenocarcinoma).   
Immunostains sensitive and specific for adenocarcinoma include pCEA, Claudin 4, TTF1, and napsin A (negative in mesothelioma). Other 
potentially useful markers that can be considered include B72.3, Ber-EP4, MOC31, and CD15, but these generally do not have the sensitivity 
and specificity of the above markers. 
A pancytokeratin such as AE1/AE3 is also useful, as a negative result suggests the possibility of other tumors.
Other markers can be helpful in the differential diagnosis between mesothelioma and metastatic carcinoma, and will also help determine 
the tumor origin. Examples include markers for lung adenocarcinoma (TTF1 and napsin A), breast carcinoma (ERα, PR, GCDFP15, 
mammaglobin, and GATA-3), renal cell carcinoma (PAX8), papillary serous carcinoma (PAX8, PAX2, and ER), adenocarcinomas of 
the gastrointestinal tract (CDX2), and prostate cancer (NKX3.1). Additionally, p40 (or p63) is helpful for distinguishing epithelioid 
mesotheliomas with pseudosquamous morphology from squamous cell carcinomas.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-A
4 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL THERAPY
Evaluation
• Determination of resectability, surgical staging, and pulmonary resection should be performed by thoracic surgeons who perform lung 
cancer surgery as a prominent part of their practice. 
• CT and PET/CT used for staging should be within 60 days before proceeding with surgical evaluation.
• For medically operable disease, resection is the preferred local treatment modality (other modalities include SABR, thermal ablation such 
as radiofrequency ablation, and cryotherapy). Thoracic surgical oncology consultation should be part of the evaluation of any patient being 
considered for curative local therapy. In cases where SABR is considered for high-risk or borderline operable patients, a multidisciplinary 
evaluation including a radiation oncologist is recommended.
• The overall plan of treatment as well as needed imaging studies should be determined before any non-emergency treatment is initiated.
• Thoracic surgeons should actively participate in multidisciplinary discussions and meetings regarding lung cancer patients (eg, 
multidisciplinary clinic and/or tumor board).
• Patients who are active smokers should be provided counseling and smoking cessation support (NCCN Guidelines for Smoking Cessation). 
While active smokers have a mildly increased incidence of postoperative pulmonary complications, these should not be considered 
a prohibitive risk for surgery. Surgeons should not deny surgery to patients solely due to smoking status, as surgery provides the 
predominant therapy for patients with early-stage lung cancer.
Resection
• Anatomic pulmonary resection is preferred for the majority of patients with NSCLC.
• Sublobar resection - Segmentectomy and wedge resection should achieve parenchymal resection margins ≥2 cm or ≥ the size of the nodule.
• Sublobar resection should also sample appropriate N1 and N2 lymph node stations unless not technically feasible without substantially 
increasing the surgical risk. 
• Segmentectomy (preferred) or wedge resection is appropriate in selected patients for the following reasons:
Poor pulmonary reserve or other major comorbidity that contraindicates lobectomy
Peripheral nodulea ≤2 cm with at least one of the following:
◊ Pure AIS histology
◊ Nodule has ≥50% ground-glass appearance on CT
◊ Radiologic surveillance confirms a long doubling time (≥400 days)
• VATS or minimally invasive surgery (including robotic-assisted approaches) should be strongly considered for patients with no anatomic or 
surgical contraindications, as long as there is no compromise of standard oncologic and dissection principles of thoracic surgery.
• In high-volume centers with significant VATS experience, VATS lobectomy in selected patients results in improved early outcomes (ie, 
decreased pain, reduced hospital length of stay, more rapid return to function, fewer complications) without compromise of cancer 
outcomes.
• Lung-sparing anatomic resection (sleeve lobectomy) is preferred over pneumonectomy, if anatomically appropriate and margin-negative 
resection is achieved.
• T3 (invasion) and T4 local extension tumors require en-bloc resection of the involved structure with negative margins. If a surgeon or center 
is uncertain about potential complete resection, consider obtaining an additional surgical opinion from a high-volume specialized center.
Margins and Nodal Assessment (see NSCL-B 2 of 4) The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC 
a Peripheral is defined as the outer one third of the lung parenchyma. (see NSCL-B 2 of 4 through NSCL-B 4 of 4)
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-B
1 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL THERAPY
Margins and Nodal Assessment
• Surgical pathologic correlation is critical to assess apparent close or positive margins, as these may not represent true margins or may not 
truly represent areas of risk for local recurrence (eg, medial surface of mainstem or bronchus intermedius when separate subcarinal lymph 
node dissection has been performed; pleural margin adjacent to aorta when no attachment to aorta is present).
• N1 and N2 node resection and mapping should be a routine component of lung cancer resections—a minimum of three N2 stations sampled 
or complete lymph node dissection.
• Formal ipsilateral mediastinal lymph node dissection is indicated for patients undergoing resection for stage IIIA (N2) disease.
• Complete resection requires free resection margins, systematic node dissection or sampling, and the highest mediastinal node negative 
for tumor. The resection is defined as incomplete whenever there is involvement of resection margins, unremoved positive lymph nodes, 
or positive pleural or pericardial effusions. A complete resection is referred to as R0, microscopically positive resection as R1, and 
macroscopic residual tumor as R2.
• Patients with pathologic stage II or greater, or high-risk factors, should be referred to medical oncology for evaluation.
• Consider referral to a radiation oncologist for resected stage IIIA. 
The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC
The role of surgery in patients with pathologically documented N2 disease remains controversial.1 Two randomized trials evaluated the role of 
surgery in this population, but neither showed an overall survival benefit with the use of surgery.2,3 However, this population is heterogeneous 
and the panel believes that these trials did not sufficiently evaluate the nuances present with the heterogeneity of N2 disease and the likely 
oncologic benefit of surgery in specific clinical situations.
• The presence or absence of N2 disease should be vigorously determined by both radiologic and invasive staging prior to the initiation of 
therapy since the presence of mediastinal nodal disease has a profound impact on prognosis and treatment decisions. (NSCL-1, NSCL-2, and 
NSCL-6)
• Patients with occult-positive N2 nodes discovered at the time of pulmonary resection should continue with the planned resection along 
with formal mediastinal lymph node dissection. If N2 disease is noted in patients undergoing VATS, the surgeon may consider stopping the 
procedure so that induction therapy can be administered before surgery; however, continuing the procedure is also an option.
• The determination of the role of surgery in a patient with N2-positive lymph nodes should be made prior to the initiation of any therapy by a 
multidisciplinary team, including a thoracic surgeon who has a major part of his/her practice dedicated to thoracic oncology.4
• The presence of N2-positive lymph nodes substantially increases the likelihood of positive N3 lymph nodes. Pathologic evaluation of the 
mediastinum must include evaluation of the subcarinal station and contralateral lymph nodes. EBUS +/- EUS are additional techniques for 
minimally invasive pathologic mediastinal staging that are complementary to mediastinoscopy. Even when these modalities are employed 
it is important to have an adequate evaluation of the number of stations involved and biopsy and documentation of negative contralateral 
lymph node involvement prior to a final treatment decision.
The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC is continued on NSCL-B 3 of 4 through NSCL-B 4 of 4
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-B
2 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL THERAPY
The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC
• Repeat mediastinoscopy, while possible, is technically difficult and has a lower accuracy compared to primary mediastinoscopy. One possible 
strategy is to perform EBUS (± EUS) in the initial pretreatment evaluation and reserve mediastinoscopy for nodal restaging after neoadjuvant 
therapy.5
• Patients with a single lymph node smaller than 3 cm can be considered for a multimodality approach that includes surgical resection.1,6,7
• Restaging after induction therapy is difficult to interpret, but CT ± PET should be performed to exclude disease progression or interval development 
of metastatic disease.
• Patients with negative mediastinum after neoadjuvant therapy have a better prognosis.7,8
• Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is used in one-third of the NCCN Member Institutions, while neoadjuvant chemotherapy is used in the other two-
thirds. Overall survival appears similar provided RT is given postoperatively, if not given preoperatively.5,9 Neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is 
associated with higher rates of pathologic complete response and negative mediastinal lymph nodes.10 However, that is achieved at the expense of 
higher rates of acute toxicity and increased cost.
• When neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy is used with doses lower than those used for standard definitive therapy, all efforts should be made to 
minimize any possible breaks in radiotherapy for surgical evaluation. Treatment breaks of more than 1 week are considered unacceptable.
• When timely surgical evaluation is not available, the strategy of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy should not be used. Another option in individual 
cases, and with the agreement of the thoracic surgeon, is to complete definitive chemoradiotherapy prior to re-evaluation and consideration for 
surgery.11,12 If a surgeon or center is uncertain about the feasibility or safety of resection after definitive doses of radiation, consider obtaining an 
additional surgical opinion from a high-volume specialized center. These operations may also benefit from additional considerations of soft tissue 
flap coverage in the radiation field at the time of resection.
• Data from a large multi-institutional trial indicate that pneumonectomy after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy has unacceptable morbidity and 
mortality.2 However, it is not clear if this is also true with neoadjuvant chemotherapy alone. Further, many groups have challenged that cooperative 
group finding with single-institution experiences demonstrating safety of pneumonectomy after induction therapy.13-16 In addition, there is no 
evidence that adding RT to induction regimens for patients with operable stage IIIA (N2) disease improves outcomes compared to induction 
chemotherapy.17
A questionnaire was submitted to the NCCN Member Institutions in 2021 regarding their approach to patients with N2 disease. Their responses indicate the 
patterns of practice when approaching this difficult clinical problem. 
• All NCCN institutions treat select N2 patients with multimodality therapy that includes surgery.
• The majority of NCCN institutions prefer EBUS for initial mediastinal staging, reserving mediastinoscopy for possible restaging.
• The majority of institutions do not pathologically restage mediastinal lymph nodes after induction therapy and prior to surgery. 
• All NCCN institutions consider surgery for single-station non-bulky N2 disease.
• Approximately half of the institutions consider surgery for single-station bulky disease, 39% for multi-station non-bulky disease, and 21% for multi-station 
bulky disease.
• Two-thirds of institutions prefer induction chemotherapy; one-third prefer chemoradiation.
• The majority require at least stable disease after induction, but do not require radiologic or pathologic response prior to surgery.
• Roughly a half would consider pneumonectomy after induction chemotherapy, but less than a quarter would consider pneumonectomy after chemoradiation.
•  Approximately three-fourths would give adjuvant RT for positive residual N2 disease, but only approximately one-fourth would give RT for N2 pathologic 
complete response.
References
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-B
3 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF SURGICAL THERAPY
The Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA (N2) NSCLC - References
1 Martins RG, D'Amico TA, Loo BW Jr, et al. The management of patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer with N2 mediastinal node involvement. J Natl Compr 
Canc Netw 2012;10:599-613.
2 Albain K, Swann RS, Rusch VW, et al. Radiotherapy plus chemotherapy with or without surgical resection for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase III 
randomized controlled trial. Lancet 2009;374:379-386.
3 van Meerbeeck JP, Kramer GW, Van Schil PE, et al. Randomized controlled trial of resection versus radiotherapy after induction chemotherapy in stage IIIA-N2 non-
small-cell lung cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 2007;99:442-450.
4 Farjah F, Flum DR, Varghese TK Jr, et al. Surgeon specialty and long-term survival after pulmonary resection for lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 2009;87:995-1006.
5 Thomas M, Rübe C, Hoffknecht P, et al. Effect of preoperative chemoradiation in addition to preoperative chemotherapy: a randomised trial in stage III non-small-cell 
lung cancer. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:636-648.
6 Andre F, Grunenwald D, Pignon J, et al. Survival of patients with resected N2 non-small-cell lung Cancer: Evidence for a subclassification and implications. J Clin 
Oncol 2000;18:2981-2989.
7 Decaluwé H, De Leyn P, Vansteenkiste J, et al. Surgical multimodality treatment for baseline resectable stage IIIA-N2 non-small cell lung cancer. Degree of mediastinal 
lymph node involvement and impact on survival. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2009;36:433-439.
8 Bueno R, Richards WG, Swanson SJ, et al. Nodal stage after induction therapy for stage IIIA lung cancer determines patient survival. Ann Thorac Surg 2000;70:1826-
1831.
9 Higgins K, Chino JP, Marks LB, et al. Preoperative chemotherapy versus preoperative chemoradiotherapy for stage III (N2) non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat 
Oncol Biol Phys 2009;75:1462-1467.
10 de Cabanyes Candela S, Detterbeck FC. A systematic review of restaging after induction therapy for stage IIIa lung cancer: prediction of pathologic stage. J Thorac 
Oncol 2010;5:389-398.
11 Bauman JE, Mulligan MS, Martins RG, et al. Salvage lung resection after definitive radiation (>59 Gy) for non-small cell lung cancer: surgical and oncologic outcomes. 
Ann Thorac Surg 2008;86:1632-1638.
12 Sonett JR, Suntharalingam M, Edelman MJ, et al. Pulmonary resection after curative intent radiotherapy (>59 Gy) and concurrent chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung 
cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 2004;78:1200-1205.
13 Evans NR 3rd, Li S, Wright CD, et al. The impact of induction therapy on morbidity and operative mortality after resection of primary lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc 
Surg 2010;139:991-996.
14 Gaissert HA, Keum DY, Wright CD, et al. POINT: Operative risk of pneumonectomy—Influence of preoperative induction therapy. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
2009;138:289-294.
15 Mansour Z, Kochetkova EA, Ducrocq X, et al. Induction chemotherapy does not increase the operative risk of pneumonectomy! Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2007;31:181-
185.
16 Weder W, Collaud S, Eberhardt WE, et al. Pneumonectomy is a valuable treatment option after neoadjuvant therapy for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. J Thorac 
Cardiovasc Surg 2010;139:1424-1430.
17 Shah AA, Berry MF, Tzao C, et al. Induction chemoradiotherapy is not superior to induction chemotherapy alone in stage IIIA lung cancer: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Ann Thorac Surg 2012;93:1807-1812.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-B
4 OF 4
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
I. General Principles (see Table 1. Commonly Used Abbreviations in Radiation Therapy)
• Determination of the appropriateness of radiation therapy (RT) should be made by radiation oncologists who perform lung cancer RT as a 
prominent part of their practice. 
• RT has a potential role in all stages of NSCLC, as either definitive/consolidative or palliative therapy. Radiation oncology input as part of a 
multidisciplinary evaluation or discussion should be provided for all patients with stage III NSCLC, with early-stage disease who are medically 
inoperable, who refuse surgery, or who are high-risk surgical candidates, and with stage IV disease that may benefit from local therapy.
• The critical goals of modern RT are to maximize tumor control and to minimize treatment toxicity. A minimum technologic standard is CT-
planned 3D-CRT.1
• More advanced technologies are appropriate when needed to deliver curative RT safely. These technologies include (but are not limited to)  
4D-CT and/or PET/CT simulation, IMRT/VMAT, IGRT, motion management, and proton therapy (https://www.astro.org/Daily-Practice/
Reimbursement/Model-Policies/Model-Policies/). Nonrandomized comparisons of using advanced technologies demonstrate reduced toxicity 
and improved survival versus older techniques.2-4 In a prospective trial of definitive/consolidative chemo/RT for patients with stage III NSCLC 
(RTOG 0617), IMRT was associated with a nearly 60% decrease (from 7.9% to 3.5%) in high-grade radiation pneumonitis as well as similar 
survival and tumor control outcomes despite a higher proportion of stage IIIB and larger treatment volumes compared to 3D-CRT;5 as such, 
IMRT is preferred over 3D-CRT in this setting.
• Centers using advanced technologies should implement and document modality-specific quality assurance measures. The ideal is external 
credentialing of both treatment planning and delivery such as required for participation in RTOG clinical trials employing advanced 
technologies. Useful references include the ACR Practice Parameters and Technical Standards (https://www.acr.org/~/media/ACR/Documents/
PGTS/toc.pdf).
• The interaction of strong VEGF inhibitors with prior or subsequent dose-intensive RT (SABR or definitive dose accelerated fractionation) 
involving the proximal bronchial tree, hilar vessels, or esophagus can lead to serious toxicity. Careful coordination of medical and radiation 
oncology on the therapeutic strategy is important, including the choice and sequencing of systemic agents with strong VEGF inhibitors and the 
dose and fractionation of radiation, especially for patients with metastatic disease.
II. Radiation Therapy Simulation, Planning, and Delivery
• Simulation should be performed using CT scans obtained in the RT treatment position with appropriate immobilization devices. IV contrast with 
or without oral contrast is recommended for better target/organ delineation whenever possible in patients with central tumors or nodal disease. 
Because IV contrast can affect tissue heterogeneity correction calculations, density masking or use of a pre-contrast scan may be needed when 
intense enhancement is present.
• PET/CT significantly improves targeting accuracy,6 especially for patients with significant atelectasis and when IV CT contrast is 
contraindicated. A randomized trial of PET/CT versus CT-only RT planning demonstrated improved preemption of futile radical RT, decreased 
recurrences, and a trend toward improved overall survival with PET/CT RT planning.7 Given the potential for rapid progression of NSCLC,8,9 
PET/CT should be obtained preferably within 4 weeks before treatment. It is ideal to obtain PET/CT in the treatment position.
• Tumor and organ motion, especially owing to breathing, should be assessed or accounted for at simulation. Options include fluoroscopy, 
inhale/exhale or slow scan CT, or, ideally, 4D-CT. 
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
1 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
II. Radiation Therapy Simulation, Planning, and Delivery (continued)
• Photon beam energy should be individualized based on the anatomic location of the tumors and beam paths. In general, photon energies 
between 4 to 10 MV are recommended for beams passing through low-density lung tissue before entering the tumor. When there is no air 
gap before the beam enters the tumor (such as for some large mediastinal tumors or tumors attached to the chest wall), higher energies may 
improve the dose distribution, especially when using a smaller number of fixed beam angles.
• Tissue heterogeneity correction and accurate dose calculation algorithms are recommended that account for buildup and lateral electron 
scatter effects in heterogeneous density tissues. Heterogeneity correction with simple pencil beam algorithms is not recommended.10
• Respiratory motion should be managed when motion is excessive. This includes (but is not limited to) forced shallow breathing with 
abdominal compression, accelerator beam gating with the respiratory cycle, dynamic tumor tracking, active breathing control (ABC), or 
coaching/biofeedback techniques. If motion is minimal or the ITV is small, motion-encompassing targeting is appropriate. A useful resource 
for implementation of respiratory motion management is the report of AAPM Task Group 76.11
• IGRT—including (but not limited to) orthogonal pair planar imaging and/or volumetric imaging (such as CBCT or CT on rails)—is 
recommended when using SABR, 3D-CRT/IMRT, and proton therapy with steep dose gradients around the target, when OARs are in close 
proximity to high-dose regions, and when using complex motion management techniques.
III. Target Volumes, Prescription Doses, and Normal Tissue Dose Constraints (See Tables 2–5 on NSCL-C 7 of 10 and NSCL-C 8 of 10)
• ICRU Reports 62 and 83 detail the current definitions of target volumes for 3D-RT and IMRT. GTV comprises the known extent of disease 
(primary and nodal) on imaging and pathologic assessment, CTV includes regions of presumed microscopic extent or dissemination, and 
PTV comprises the ITV (which includes margin for target motion) plus a setup margin for positioning and mechanical variability.  
https://www.nrgoncology.org/ciro-lung
• PTV margin can be decreased by immobilization, motion management, and IGRT techniques.
• Consistent delineation of normal structures is critical for evaluating plans for safety. The RTOG consensus lung-contouring atlas is a useful 
resource. https://www.nrgoncology.org/ciro-lung
• Commonly used prescription doses and normal tissue dose constraints are summarized in Tables 2 through 5. These are based on 
published experience, ongoing trials, historical data, modeling, and empirical judgment.12,13 Useful references include the recent reviews of 
normal organ dose responses from the QUANTEC project.14-18 Because risk of normal organ toxicity increases with dose, doses to normal 
organs should be kept as low as reasonably achievable rather than simply meeting nominal constraints. This is generally facilitated by more 
advanced techniques to achieve better dose conformity.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
2 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
IV. General Treatment Information 
Early-Stage NSCLC (Stage I, selected node-negative Stage IIA)
• SABR (also known as SBRT)19 has achieved good primary tumor control rates and overall survival, higher than conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy. Although SABR is not proven equivalent to lobectomy, some prospective series have demonstrated similar overall and cancer-
specific survival.20-30
• SABR is also an appropriate option for patients with high surgical risk (able to tolerate sublobar resection but not lobectomy [eg, age ≥75 
years, poor lung function]). 
• More modestly hypofractionated or dose-intensified conventionally fractionated 3D-CRT regimens are less preferred alternatives and may be 
considered if referral for SABR is not feasible.31-33
• In patients treated with surgery, postoperative radiotherapy (PORT) is not recommended unless there are positive margins or upstaging to N2 
(see Locally Advanced NSCLC in this section).
• Close follow-up and salvage therapy for isolated local and/or locoregional recurrence after SABR have been shown to improve overall 
survival in a large retrospective study.34
SABR for Node-Negative Early-Stage NSCLC
• The high-dose intensity and conformity of SABR require minimizing the PTV.
• Dosing regimen
For SABR, intensive regimens of BED ≥100 Gy are associated with significantly better local control and survival than less intensive 
regimens.35,36 In the United States, only regimens of ≤5 fractions meet the arbitrary billing code definition of SBRT, but slightly more 
protracted regimens are appropriate as well.35,37 For centrally located tumors (defined variably as within 2 cm of the proximal bronchial tree 
and/or abutting mediastinal pleura) and even ultra-central tumors (defined as abutting the proximal bronchial tree), 4 to 10 fraction risk-
adapted SABR regimens appear to be effective and safe,38-41 while 54 to 60 Gy in 3 fractions is unsafe and should be avoided.42 However, 
particular attention should be paid to tumors abutting the bronchial tree and esophagus to avoid severe toxicity. RTOG 0813 evaluated the 
toxicity of 5-fraction regimens and found no high-grade toxicities at 50 Gy in 5 fractions.43
• SABR is most commonly used for tumors up to 5 cm in size, though selected larger isolated tumors can be treated safely if normal tissue 
constraints are respected.43,44  
• Prescription doses incompletely describe the actual delivered doses, which also strongly depend on how the dose is prescribed (to the 
isocenter vs. an isodose volume covering a proportion of the PTV), the degree of dose heterogeneity, whether tissue density heterogeneity 
corrections are used, and the type of dose calculation algorithm.10,45,46 All of these must be considered when interpreting or emulating 
regimens from prior studies.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
3 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Locally Advanced NSCLC (Stage II–III)
• Concurrent chemotherapy/RT is recommended for patients with inoperable stage II (node-positive) and stage III NSCLC.47-50
• RT interruptions and dose reductions for manageable acute toxicities should be avoided by employing supportive care. 
• Sequential chemotherapy/RT or RT alone is appropriate for frail patients unable to tolerate concurrent therapy.51,52  
Accelerated RT regimens may be beneficial, particularly if concurrent chemotherapy would not be tolerated (ie, in a sequential or RT-only 
approach).53,54
• Preoperative concurrent chemotherapy/RT is an option for patients with resectable stage IIIA (minimal N2 and treatable with lobectomy)55 
NSCLC and is recommended for resectable superior sulcus tumors.56,57 RT should be planned up front such that it continues to a definitive 
dose without interruption if the patient does not proceed to surgery as initially planned. 
• Preoperative chemotherapy and postoperative RT is an alternative for patients with resectable stage IIIA disease.58,59 The optimal timing of 
RT in trimodality therapy (preoperative with chemotherapy or postoperative) is not established and is controversial.60,61
• The determination of resectability in trimodality therapy should be made prior to initiation of all treatment. Upfront multidisciplinary 
consultation is particularly important when considering surgical treatment of patients with stage III NSCLC.
• In patients with clinical stage I/II upstaged surgically to N2+, PORT appears to improve survival significantly as an adjunct to postoperative 
chemotherapy in non-randomized analyses.62,63 Although the optimal sequence is not established, PORT is generally administered after 
postoperative chemotherapy and concurrently with chemotherapy for positive resection margins.64-67
• PORT is not recommended for patients with pathologic stage N0–1 disease, because it has been associated with increased mortality, at least 
when using older RT techniques.68
Conventionally Fractionated RT for Locally Advanced NSCLC
• IFI omitting ENI allows tumor dose escalation and is associated with a low risk of isolated nodal relapse, particularly in a patient staged with 
PET/CT.69-73 Three randomized trials found improved survival for IFI versus ENI, possibly because it enabled dose escalation.74-76 IFI is 
reasonable in order to optimize definitive dosing to the tumor and/or decrease normal tissue toxicity. 75,76
• Dosing Regimens
The most commonly prescribed doses for definitive RT are 60 to 70 Gy in 2 Gy fractions. Doses of at least 60 Gy should be given.77 Dose 
escalation is associated with better survival in non-randomized comparisons in RT alone,78 sequential chemo/RT,79 or concurrent chemo/RT.80 
While optimal RT dose intensification remains a valid question, a high dose of 74 Gy is not currently recommended for routine use.81-86  
A meta-analysis demonstrated improved survival with accelerated fractionation RT regimens,87 and RTOG 1106 found that PET-based 
individualized accelerated RT dose intensification potentially improved local control but not overall survival.88 
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
4 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Conventionally Fractionated RT for Locally Advanced NSCLC (continued)
• Dosing Regimens
Doses of 45 to 54 Gy in 1.8 to 2 Gy fractions are standard preoperative doses.89 Definitive RT doses delivered as preoperative chemoRT can 
safely be administered and achieve promising nodal clearance and survival rates,90-93 but require experience in thoracic surgical techniques to 
minimize the risk of surgical complications after high-dose RT. 
In PORT, the CTV includes the bronchial stump and high-risk draining lymph node stations.94 Standard doses after complete resection are 
50 to 54 Gy in 1.8 to 2 Gy fractions, but a boost may be administered to high-risk regions including areas of nodal extracapsular extension 
or microscopic positive margins.62,63,95 Lung dose constraints should be more conservative, because tolerance appears to be reduced after 
surgery. The ongoing European LungART trial provides useful guidelines for PORT technique.96 
Advanced/Metastatic NSCLC (Stage IV)
• RT is recommended for local palliation or prevention of symptoms (such as pain, bleeding, or obstruction).
• Definitive/consolidative local therapy to isolated or limited metastatic sites (oligometastases) (including but not limited to brain, lung, and adrenal 
gland) achieves prolonged survival in a small proportion of well-selected patients with good performance status who have also received radical 
therapy to the intrathoracic disease.97 Definitive RT to oligometastases (limited number is not universally defined but clinical trials have included 
3–5 metastases), particularly SABR, is an appropriate option in such cases if it can be delivered safely to the involved sites.98,99 In two randomized 
phase II trials, significantly improved progression-free survival and overall survival in one trial100,101 were found for local consolidative therapy 
(RT or surgery) to oligometastatic lesions versus maintenance systemic therapy or observation for patients not progressing on systemic 
therapy.100-102
• In the setting of progression at a limited number of sites on a given line of systemic therapy (oligoprogression), local ablative therapy to the 
oligoprogressive sites may extend the duration of benefit of the current line of systemic therapy.
•  When treating oligometastatic/oligoprogressive lesions, if SABR is not feasible, other dose-intensive accelerated/hypofractionated CRT regimens 
may be used.
• See the NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers regarding RT for brain metastases.
• A pooled analysis of two randomized trials indicated that adding radiotherapy to a certain immune checkpoint inhibitor (anti-PD-1) significantly 
increased responses and clinical outcomes in patients with metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Larger phase III randomized studies are 
ongoing.103
Palliative RT for Advanced/Metastatic NSCLC
• The dose and fractionation of palliative RT should be individualized based on goals of care, symptoms, performance status, and logistical 
considerations. Shorter courses of RT are preferred for patients with poor performance status and/or shorter life expectancy because they provide 
similar pain relief as longer courses, although there is a higher potential need for retreatment.104-107 For palliation of thoracic symptoms, higher 
dose/longer-course thoracic RT (eg, ≥30 Gy in 10 fractions) is associated with modestly improved survival and symptoms, particularly in patients 
with good performance status.108,109 When higher doses (>30 Gy) are warranted, technologies to reduce normal tissue irradiation (at least 3D-CRT 
and including IMRT or proton therapy as appropriate) may be used. 
• Single-fraction stereotactic RT of 12–16 Gy produced better control of pain response and local control of non-spine bone metastases compared to 
standard 30 Gy in 10 fractions in a randomized phase II trial, and may be promising for patients with longer expected survival.110
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
5 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Table 1. Commonly Used Abbreviations in Radiation Therapy
RT Radiation Therapy or Radiotherapy ICRU  International Commission on Radiation 
Units and Measurements
2D-RT 2-Dimensional RT
IFI Involved Field Irradiation
3D-CRT 3-Dimensional Conformal RT
IGRT Image-Guided RT
4D-CT  4-Dimensional Computed 
Tomography IMRT Intensity-Modulated RT
AAPM  American Association of Physicists ITV* Internal Target Volume
in Medicine
OAR Organ at Risk
ABC Active Breathing Control
OBI On-Board Imaging
ACR American College of Radiology
PORT Postoperative RT
ASTRO  American Society for Radiation 
Oncology PTV* Planning Target Volume
BED Biologically Effective Dose QUANTEC  Quantitative Analysis of Normal Tissue 
Effects in the Clinic
CBCT Cone-Beam CT
RTOG Radiation Therapy Oncology Group 
CTV* Clinical Target Volume now part of NRG Oncology
ENI Elective Nodal Irradiation SABR  Stereotactic Ablative RT, also known as 
Stereotactic Body RT (SBRT)
GTV* Gross Tumor Volume
VMAT Volumetric Modulated Arc Therapy
*Refer to ICRU Report 83 for detailed definitions.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C 
6 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Please note: Tables 2–5 provide doses and constraints used commonly or in past clinical trials as useful references rather than specific recommendations.
Table 2. Commonly Used Doses for SABR Table 3. Maximum Dose Constraints for SABR*
Total Dose # Fractions Example Indications OAR/Regimen 1 Fraction 3 Fractions 4 Fractions 5 Fractions
25–34 Gy 1  Peripheral, small Spinal cord 14 Gy 18 Gy 26 Gy 30 Gy
(6 Gy/fx) (6.5 Gy/fx) (6 Gy/fx)
45–60 Gy 3 Peripheral tumors Esophagus 15.4 Gy 27 Gy 30 Gy 105% of PTV 
(9 Gy/fx) (7.5 Gy/fx) prescription^
48–50 Gy 4  Central or peripheral tumors 
<4–5 cm Brachial 17.5 Gy 24 Gy 27.2 Gy 32 Gy 
plexus (8 Gy/fx) (6.8 Gy/fx) (6.4 Gy/fx)
50–55 Gy 5  Central or peripheral tumors Heart/ 22 Gy 30 Gy 34 Gy 105% of PTV 
pericardium (10 Gy/fx) (8.5 Gy/fx) prescription^
60–70 Gy 8–10 Central tumors
Great vessels 37 Gy NS 49 Gy 105% of PTV 
(12.25 Gy/fx) prescription^
Trachea & 20.2 Gy 30 Gy 34.8 Gy 105% of PTV 
proximal (10 Gy/fx) (8.7 Gy/fx) prescription^
bronchi
Rib 30 Gy 30 Gy 40 Gy NS
(10 Gy/fx) (10 Gy/fx)
Skin 26 Gy 24 Gy 36 Gy 32 Gy
(8 Gy/fx) (9 Gy/fx) (6.4 Gy/fx)
Stomach 12.4 Gy NS 27.2 Gy NS
(6.8 Gy/fx)
*Based on constraints used in recent RTOG SABR trials (RTOG 0618, 0813, & 0915).
^For central tumor location. NS = not specified.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C 
7 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY
Please note: Tables 2–5 provide doses and constraints used commonly or in past clinical trials as useful references rather than specific recommendations.
Table 4. Commonly Used Doses for Conventionally Fractionated and Table 5. Normal Tissue Dose-Volume Constraints for 
Palliative RT Conventionally Fractionated RT with Concurrent Chemotherapy†,‡
Treatment Type Total Dose Fraction Treatment OAR Constraints in 30–35 fractions
Size Duration Spinal cord Max ≤50 Gy
Definitive RT with or without 60–70 Gy 2 Gy 6–7 weeks Lung V20 ≤35%–40%;§ MLD ≤20 Gy
chemotherapy
Heart V50 ≤25%; Mean ≤20 Gy
Preoperative RT 45–54 Gy 1.8–2 Gy 5 weeks
Esophagus Mean ≤34 Gy; Max ≤105% of prescription dose; 
Postoperative RT V60 ≤17%; contralateral sparing is desirable
• Negative margins 50–54 Gy 1.8–2 Gy 5–6 weeks
• Extracapsular nodal 54–60 Gy 1.8–2 Gy 6 weeks Brachial plexus Median dose ≤69 Gy
extension or microscopic 
positive margins
• Gross residual tumor 60–70 Gy 2 Gy 6–7 weeks Vxx = % of the whole OAR receiving ≥xx Gy.
†These constraints represent doses that generally should not be exceeded, based on a 
Palliative RT consensus survey of NCCN Member Institutions. Because the risk of toxicity increases 
• Obstructive disease (SVC 30–45 Gy 3 Gy 2–3 weeks progressively with dose to normal tissues, a key principle of radiation treatment planning is 
syndrome or obstructive to keep normal tissue doses "as low as reasonably achievable" while adequately covering 
pneumonia) the target. The doses to any given organ at risk should typically be lower than these 
constraints, approaching them only when there is close proximity to the target volume. 
• Bone metastases with soft 20–30 Gy 4–3 Gy 1–2 weeks † Speirs CK, et al. J Thorac Oncol 2017;12:293-301; Wang K, et al. J Clin Oncol 
tissue mass 2017;35:1387-1394; Amini A, et al. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:e391-398; Graham 
• Bone metastases without 8–30 Gy 8–3 Gy 1 day–2 weeks MV, et al. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1999;45:323-329; Palma DA, et al. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Biol Phys 2013;85:444-450; Kamran SC, et al. JAMA Oncol 2021;7:910-914.
soft tissue mass § Use V20 <35%, especially for the following: elderly ≥70 years, taxane chemotherapy, and 
• Brain metastases CNS GLs* CNS GLs* CNS GLs* poor PFTs (such as FEV1 or DLCO <50% normal). Use more conservative limits with a 
• Symptomatic chest disease 17 Gy** 8.5 Gy** 1–2 weeks** diagnosis or radiologic evidence of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IDP)/usual interstitial 
in patients with poor PS pneumonia (UIP) (the tolerance of these patients is lower though not well characterized).
• Any metastasis in patients 8–20 Gy 8–4 Gy 1 day–1 week
with poor PS
* NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers
** This regimen includes one dose per week, as the phase 3 study included day 1 & 8 treatments.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated. References
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
8 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF RADIATION THERAPY – REFERENCES
1 Chen AB, et al. Survival outcomes after radiation therapy for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer 21 Baumann P, et al. Outcome in a prospective phase II trial of medically inoperable stage I 
after adoption of computed tomography-based simulation. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2305-2311. non-small-cell lung cancer patients treated with stereotactic body radiotherapy. J Clin Oncol 
2 Liao ZX, et al. Influence of technologic advances on outcomes in patients with unresectable, 2009;27:3290-3296.
locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer receiving concomitant chemoradiotherapy. Int J 22 Onishi H, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for operable stage I non-small-cell lung 
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:775-781. cancer: can SBRT be comparable to surgery? Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;81:1352-1358.
3 Gjyshi O, et al. Toxicity and survival after intensity-modulated proton therapy versus passive 23 Grutters JPC, et al. Comparison of the effectiveness of radiotherapy with photons, protons and 
scattering proton therapy for NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2021;16:269-277. carbon-ions for non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis. Radiother Oncol 2010;95:32-40.
4 Chang JY, et al. Proton beam radiotherapy and concurrent chemotherapy for unresectable 24 Palma D, et al. Impact of introducing stereotactic lung radiotherapy for elderly patients with 
stage III non-small cell lung cancer: final results of a phase 2 study. JAMA Oncol stage I non-small-cell lung cancer: a population-based time-trend analysis. J Clin Oncol 
2017;3:e172032. 2010;28:5153-5159.
5 Chun SG, et al. Impact of intensity-modulated radiation therapy technique for locally 25 Shirvani SM, et al. Comparative effectiveness of 5 treatment strategies for early-stage non-
advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a secondary analysis of the NRG Oncology RTOG 0617 small cell lung cancer in the elderly. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;84:1060-1070.
randomized clinical trial. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:56-62. 26 Sun B, et al. 7-year follow-up after stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for patients with stage I 
6 MacManus M, et al. Use of PET and PET/CT for radiation therapy planning: IAEA expert report non-small cell lung cancer: Results of a phase 2 clinical trial. Cancer 2017;123:3031-3039. 
2006-2007. Radiother Oncol 2009;91:85-94. 27 Grills IS, et al. Outcomes after stereotactic lung radiotherapy or wedge resection for stage I 
7 Ung YC, et al. An Ontario Clinical Oncology Group (OCOG) randomized trial (PET START) of non-small-cell lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:928-935.
FDG PET/CT in patients with stage 3 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): impact of PET on 28 Crabtree TD, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy versus surgical resection for stage I 
radiation treatment volumes [Abstract]. J Thorac Oncol 2011;6:S428. non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2010;140:377-386.
8 Everitt S, et al. High rates of tumor growth and disease progression detected on serial 29 Chang JY, Senan S, Paul MA, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy versus lobectomy for 
pretreatment positrooxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography scans in operable stage I non-small-cell lung cancer: a pooled analysis of two randomised trials. Lancet 
radical radiotherapy candidates with nonsmall cell lung cancer. Cancer 2010;116:5030-5037. Oncol 2015;16:630-637.
9 Mohammed N, et al. Rapid disease progression with delay in treatment of non-small-cell lung 30 Chang JY, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for operable stage I non-small-cell lung 
cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;79:466-472. cancer (revised STARS): long-term results of a single-arm, prospective trial with prespecified 
10 Liu MB, et al. Clinical impact of dose overestimation by effective path length calculation in comparison to surgery. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:1448-1457.
stereotactic ablative radiation therapy of lung tumors. Pract Radiat Oncol 2013;3:294-300. 31 Bogart JA, et al. Phase I study of accelerated conformal radiotherapy for stage I non-small-cell lung 
11 Keall PJ, et al. The management of respiratory motion in radiation oncology report of AAPM cancer in patients with pulmonary dysfunction: CALGB 39904. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:202-206.
Task Group 76. Med Phys 2006;33:3874-3900. 32 Zhao L, et al. High radiation dose may reduce the negative effect of large gross tumor volume 
12 Kong FM, et al. Physical models and simpler dosimetric descriptors of radiation late toxicity. in patients with medically inoperable early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol 
Semin Radiat Oncol 2007;17:108-120. Biol Phys 2007;68:103-110.
13 Timmerman RD. An overview of hypofractionation and introduction to this issue of seminars in 33 Cheung P, et al. Phase II study of accelerated hypofractionated three-dimensional conformal 
radiation oncology. Semin Radiat Oncol 2008;18:215-222. radiotherapy for stage T1-3 N0 M0 non-small cell lung cancer: NCIC CTG BR.25. J Natl Cancer 
14 Marks LB, et al. Use of normal tissue complication probability models in the clinic. Int J Radiat Inst 2014;106:1-8.
Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:S10-19. 34 Brooks ED, et al. Association of long-term outcomes and survival with multidisciplinary salvage 
15 Marks LB, et al. Radiation dose-volume effects in the lung. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010; treatment for local and regional recurrence after stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for early-
76:S70-76. stage lung cancer. JAMA Netw Open 2018;1:e181390.
16 Werner-Wasik M, et al. Radiation dose-volume effects in the esophagus. Int J Radiat Oncol 35 Onishi H, et al. Hypofractionated stereotactic radiotherapy (HypoFXSRT) for stage I non-small 
Biol Phys 2010;76:S86-93. cell lung cancer: updated results of 257 patients in a Japanese multi-institutional study. J Thorac 
17 Gagliardi G, et al. Radiation dose-volume effects in the heart. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys Oncol 2007;2:S94-100.
2010;76:S77-85. 36 Moreno AC, Fellman B, Hobbs BP, et al. Biologically effective dose in stereotactic body 
18 Kirkpatrick JP, et al. Radiation dose-volume effects in the spinal cord. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol radiotherapy and survival for patients with early-stage NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2020;15:101-109.
Phys 2010;76:S42-49. 37 Lagerwaard FJ, et al. Outcomes of risk-adapted fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy for 
19 Videtec GMM, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for early-stage non-small cell lung stage I non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;70:685-692.
cancer: executive summary of an ASTRO evidence-based guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 38 Chang JY, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for centrally located early stage or isolated 
2017;7:295-301.
20 parenchymal recurrences of non-small-cell lung cancer: how to fly in a “no fly zone”. Int J Radiat 
Timmerman R, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for inoperable early stage lung Oncol Biol Phys 2014;88:1120-1128.
cancer. JAMA 2010;303:1070-1076.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C
9 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
39 Timmerman R, et al. Excessive toxicity when treating central tumors in a phase II study of 59 Sher DJ, et al. Comparative effectiveness of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy versus 
stereotactic body radiation therapy for medically inoperable early-stage lung cancer. J Clin chemotherapy alone followed by surgery for patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. 
Oncol 2006; 24:4833-4839. Lancet Oncol 2015;88:267-274.
40 Chaudhuri AA, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for treatment of central and ultra- 60 Shah AA, et al. Induction chemoradiation is not superior to induction chemotherapy alone in 
central lung tumors. Lung Cancer 2015;89:50-56. stage IIIA lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 2012;93:1807-1812.
41 Haseltine JM, et al. Fatal complications after stereotactic body radiation therapy for central 61 Douillard J-Y, et al. Impact of postoperative radiation therapy on survival in patients with 
lung tumors abutting the proximal bronchial tree. Pract Radiat Oncol 2016;6:e27-33. complete resection and stage I, II, or IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer treated with adjuvant 
42 Woody NM, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for non-small cell lung cancer tumors chemotherapy: the adjuvant Navelbine International Trialist Association (ANITA) Randomized 
greater than 5 cm: safety and efficacy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015:92:325-331.
43 Trial. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:695-701.
Bezjak A, et al. Safety and efficacy of a five-fraction stereotactic body radiotherapy schedule 62 Lally BE, et al. Postoperative radiotherapy for stage II or III non-small-cell lung cancer using 
for centrally located non-small-cell lung cancer: NRG Oncology/RTOG 0813 Trial. J Clin Oncol the surveillance, epidemiology, and end results database. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:2998-3006.
2019;37:1316-1325. 63 Feigenberg SJ, et al. A phase II study of concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel and thoracic 
44 Fakiris AJ, et al. Stereotactic body radiation therapy for early-stage non-small-cell lung radiotherapy for completely resected stage II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac 
carcinoma: four-year results of a prospective phase II study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys Oncol 2007;2:287-292.
2009;75:677-682. 64 Bradley JD, et al. Phase II trial of postoperative adjuvant paclitaxel/carboplatin and thoracic 
45 Xiao Y, et al. Dosimetric evaluation of heterogeneity corrections for RTOG 0236: stereotactic radiotherapy in resected stage II and IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer: promising long-term results 
body radiotherapy of inoperable stage I-II non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group--RTOG 9705. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:3480-3487.
Phys 2009;73:1235-1242. 65 Keller SM, et al. A randomized trial of postoperative adjuvant therapy in patients with 
46 Zhao L, et al. Planning target volume D95 and mean dose should be considered for completely resected stage II or IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer. Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
optimal local control for stereotactic ablative radiation therapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys Group. N Engl J Med 2000; 343:1217-1222.
2016;95:1226-35. 66 Hancock JG, et al. Impact of adjuvant treatment for microscopic residual disease after non-
47 Aupérin A, et al. Meta-analysis of concomitant versus sequential radiochemotherapy in locally small cell lung cancer surgery. Ann Thorac Surg 2015;99:406-416.
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2181-2190. 67 
48 Burdett S, Stewart L, Group PM-a. Postoperative radiotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer: 
O'Rourke N, et al. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer. Cochrane update of an individual patient data meta-analysis. Lung Cancer 2005;47:81-83.
Database Syst Rev 2010:CD002140. 68 
49 Francis S, et al. Sequencing of postoperative radiotherapy and chemotherapy for locally 
Curran WJ Jr, et al. Sequential vs. concurrent chemoradiation for stage III non-small cell lung advanced or incompletely resected non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:333-341.
cancer: randomized phase III trial RTOG 9410. J Natl Cancer Inst 2011;103:1452-1460. 69 Belderbos JS, et al. Report from the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) consultants’ 
50 Sause W, et al. Final results of phase III trial in regionally advanced unresectable non-small meeting on elective nodal irradiation in lung cancer: non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Int J 
cell lung cancer: Radiation Therapy Oncology Group, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:335-342.
and Southwest Oncology Group. Chest 2000;117:358-364. 70 Bradley J, et al. A phase II comparative study of gross tumor volume definition with or without  
51 Dillman RO, et al. Improved survival in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: seven-year follow-up PET/CT fusion in dosimetric planning for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC): primary analysis of 
of cancer and leukemia group B (CALGB) 8433 trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 1996;88:1210-1215. radiation therapy oncology group (RTOG) 0515. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:435-441.
52 Baumann M, et al. Final results of the randomized phase III CHARTWEL-trial (ARO 97-1) 71 Sanuki-Fujimoto N, et al. Relation between elective nodal failure and irradiated volume in 
comparing hyperfractionated-accelerated versus conventionally fractionated radiotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with radiotherapy using conventional fields and 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Radiother Oncol 2011;100:76-85. doses. Radiother Oncol 2009; 91:433-437.
53 Mauguen A, et al. Hyperfractionated or accelerated radiotherapy in lung cancer: an individual 72 Sulman EP, et al. Exclusion of elective nodal irradiation is associated with minimal elective 
patient data meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2788-2797. nodal failure in non-small cell lung cancer. Radiat Oncol 2009;4:5-11.
54 Albain KS, et al. Radiotherapy plus chemotherapy with or without surgical resection for stage 73 Rosenzweig KE, Sura S, Jackson A, Yorke E. Involved-field radiation therapy for inoperable 
III non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase III randomised controlled trial. Lancet 2009;374:379-386
55 non small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:5557-5561.
Kunitoh H, et al. Phase II trial of preoperative chemoradiotherapy followed by surgical 74 Yuan S, et al. A randomized study of involved-field irradiation versus elective nodal irradiation 
resection in patients with superior sulcus non-small-cell lung cancers: report of Japan Clinical in combination with concurrent chemotherapy for inoperable stage III nonsmall cell lung 
Oncology Group trial 9806. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:644-649. cancer. Am J Clin Oncol 2007;30:239-244.
56 Rusch VW, et al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus 75 Chen M, et al. Involved-field radiotherapy versus elective nodal irradiation in combination 
non-small-cell lung carcinomas: long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 with concurrent chemotherapy for locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a propective 
(Intergroup Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318. randomized study. Biomed Res Int 2013;3711819.
57 Thomas M, et al. Effect of preoperative chemoradiation in addition to preoperative 76 Nestle U, et al. Imaging-based target volume reduction in chemoradiotherapy for locally 
chemotherapy: a randomized trial in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. Lancet Oncol advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (PET-Plan): a multicentre, open-label, randomised, 
2008;9:607-608. controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:581-592.
58 Higgins K, et al. Preoperative chemotherapy versus preoperative chemoradiotherapy for 
stage III (N2) non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Biol Phys 2009;75:1462-1467. Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C 
10 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
77 Perez CA, et al. Long-term observations of the patterns of failure in patients with unresectable 93 Suntharalingam M, et al. Radiation therapy oncology group protocol 02-29: a phase II trial of 
non-oat cell carcinoma of the lung treated with definitive radiotherapy. Report by the Radiation neoadjuvant therapy with concurrent chemotherapy and full-dose radiation therapy followed by 
Therapy Oncology Group. Cancer 1987;59:1874-1881. surgical resection and consolidative therapy for locally advanced non-small cell carcinoma of 
78 Kong FM, et al. High-dose radiation improved local tumor control and overall survival in the lung. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;84:456-463.
patients with inoperable/unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: long-term results of a radiation 94 Kelsey CR, Light KL, Marks LB. Patterns of failure after resection of non-small-cell lung 
dose escalation study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2005;63:324-333. cancer: implications for postoperative radiation therapy volumes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
79 Rengan R, et al. Improved local control with higher doses of radiation in large-volume stage III 2006;65:1097-1105.
non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2004;60:741-747. 95 Corso CD, et al. Re-evaluation of the role of postoperative radiotherapy and the impact of 
80 Machtay M, et al. Higher biologically effective dose of radiotherapy is associated with improved radiation dose for non-small-cell lung cancer using the National Cancer Database. J Thorac 
outcomes for locally advanced non-small cell lung carcinoma treated with chemoradiation: an Oncol 2015;10:148-155.
analysis of the radiation therapy oncology group. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:425-434. 96 Spoelstra FOB, et al. Variations in target volume definition for postoperative radiotherapy in 
81 Schild SE, et al. Results of a phase I trial of concurrent chemotherapy and escalating stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: analysis of an international contouring study. Int J Radiat 
doses of radiation for unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys Oncol Biol Phys 2010; 76:1106-1113.
2006;65:1106-1111. 97 
82 Ashworth AB, et al. An individual patient data metaanalysis of outcomes and prognostic factors 
Socinski MA, et al. Randomized phase II trial of induction chemotherapy followed by after treatment of oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. Clin Lung Cancer 2014;15:346-355.
concurrent chemotherapy and dose-escalated thoracic conformal radiotherapy (74 Gy) in stage 98 Milano MT, Katz AW, Okunieff P. Patterns of recurrence after curative-intent radiation for 
III non-small-cell lung cancer: CALGB 30105. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2457-2463. oligometastases confined to one organ. Am J Clin Oncol 2010;33:157-163.
83 Stinchcombe TE, et al. Long-term follow-up of a phase I/II trial of dose escalating three-dimensional 99 Salama JK, et al. An initial report of a radiation dose-escalation trial in patients with one to five 
conformal thoracic radiation therapy with induction and concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel in sites of metastatic disease. Clin Cancer Res 2008;14:5255-5259.
unresectable stage IIIA/B non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2008;3:1279-1285. 100 Gomez DR, et al. Local consolidative therapy versus maintenance therapy or observation 
84 Bradley JD, et al. Primary analysis of the phase II component of a phase I/II dose for patients with oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer without progression after first-
intensification study using three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy and concurrent line systemic therapy: a multicentre, randomised, controlled, phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 
chemotherapy for patients with inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer: RTOG 0117. J Clin Oncol 2016;17:1672-1682.
2010;28:2475-2480. 101 Gomez DR, et al. Local consolidative therapy vs. maintenance therapy or observation for 
85 Bradley JD, et al. Standard-dose versus high-dose conformal radiotherapy with concurrent and patients with oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: long-term results of a multi-institutional, 
consolidation carboplatin plus paclitaxel with or without cetuximab for patients with stage IIIA or phase II, randomized study. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:1558-1565.
IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer (RTOG 0617): a randomised, two-by-two factorial phase 3 study. 102 Iyengar P, et al. Consolidative radiotherapy for limited metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: A 
Lancet Oncol 2015;16:187-199. phase 2 randomized clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:e173501.
86 Schild SE, et al. Exploring radiotherapy targeting strategy and dose: a pooled analysis of 103 Theelen WSME, et al. Pembrolizumab with or without radiotherapy for metastatic non-small-cell 
cooperative group trials of combined modality therapy for stage III NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol lung cancer: a pooled analysis of two randomised trials. Lancet Respir Med 2021;9:467-475.
2018;13:1171-1182. 104 Chow E, et al. Palliative radiotherapy trials for bone metastases: a systematic review. J Clin 
87 Maugen A, et al. Hyperfractionated or accelerated radiotherapy in lung cancer: an individual Oncol 2007;25:1423-1436.
patient data meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2788-2797. 105 Lutz S, et al. Palliative radiotherapy for bone metastases: an ASTRO evidence-based 
88 Kong F-M S, et al. NRG-RTOG 1106/ACRIN 6697: A phase IIR trial of standard versus guideline. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;79:965-976.
adaptive (mid-treatment PET-based) chemoradiotherapy for stage III NSCLC—Results 106 Cross CK, et al. Prospective study of palliative hypofractionated radiotherapy (8.5 Gy x 
and comparison to NRG-RTOG 0617 (non-personalized RT dose escalation). J Clin Oncol 2) for patients with symptomatic non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2021;39:8548-8548. 
89 2004;58:1098-1105.
Sher DJ, et al. Relationship between radiation therapy dose and outcome in patients treated 107 Medical Research Council Lung Cancer Working Party. A Medical Research Council (MRC) 
with neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy and surgery for stage IIIA non-small cell lung randomised trial of palliative radiotherapy with two fractions or a single fraction in patients 
cancer: a population-based, comparative effectiveness analysis. in J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys with inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and poor performance status. Medical 
2015;92:307-316. Research Council Lung Cancer Working Party. Br J Cancer 1992;65:934-941.
90 Cerfolio RJ, et al. Pulmonary resection after concurrent chemotherapy and high dose (60Gy) 108 Rodrigues G, et al. Palliative thoracic radiotherapy in lung cancer: An American Society for 
radiation for non-small cell lung cancer is safe and may provide increased survival. Eur J Radiation Oncology evidence-based clinical practice guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 2011;1:60-71.
Cardiothorac Surg 2009;35:718-723; discussion 723. 109 Koshy M, et al. Comparative effectiveness of aggressive thoracic radiation therapy and 
91 Kwong KF, et al. High-dose radiotherapy in trimodality treatment of Pancoast tumors results in concurrent chemoradiation therapy in metastatic lung cancer. Pract Radiat Oncol 2015;5:374-382.
high pathologic complete response rates and excellent long-term survival. J Thorac Cardiovasc 110 Nguyen QN, et al. Single-fraction stereotactic vs conventional multifraction radiotherapy for 
Surg 2005;129:1250-1257. pain relief in patients with predominantly nonspine bone metastases: a randomized phase 2 
92 Sonett JR, et al. Pulmonary resection after curative intent radiotherapy (>59 Gy) and trial. JAMA Oncol 2019;5:872-878.
concurrent chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 2004;78:1200-1205.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-C 
11 OF 11
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF IMAGE-GUIDED THERMAL ABLATION THERAPY
General Principles
•  Interventional radiologists should actively participate in multidisciplinary discussions and meetings regarding patients with NSCLC (eg, multidisciplinary 
clinic and/or tumor board).
•  Decisions about whether ablation is feasible should be performed by interventional radiologists who perform IGTA as a prominent part of their practice.  
•  IGTA includes radiofrequency ablation, microwave ablation, and cryoablation. IGTA is a form of “local therapy” or “local ablative therapy.”1  
•  IGTA is a lung parenchymal sparing technique with at most a temporary decrement in FEV1 and DLCO, which is statistically indistinguishable from 
baseline after recovery.2-6
Evaluation
•  IGTA may be considered for those patients who are deemed “high risk”—those with tumors that are for the most part surgically resectable but rendered 
medically inoperable due to comorbidities. In cases where IGTA is considered for high-risk or borderline operable patients, a multidisciplinary evaluation is 
recommended.
•  IGTA has been successfully accomplished in patients considered “high risk,” objectively defined with a single major and/or two or more minor criteria.  
Major criteria included an FEV1 or DCLO ≤50%, and minor criteria included a less depressed FEV1 or DLCO between 51%–60%, advanced age ≥75 years, 
pulmonary hypertension, LVEF ≤40%, resting or exercise PaO2 <55 mmHg, and pCO2 >45 mmHg.4
•  If an interventional radiologist or center is uncertain about the feasibility or safety of IGTA or the use of IGTA for radiation failure, consider obtaining an 
additional interventional radiology opinion from a high-volume specialized center.
Ablation
•  Each energy modality has advantages and disadvantages. Determination of energy modality to be used for ablation should take into consideration the size 
and location of the target tumor, risk of complication, as well as local expertise and/or operator familiarity.7
Ablation for NSCLC
•  IGTA is an option for the management of NSCLC lesions <3 cm. Ablation for NSCLC lesions >3 cm may be associated with higher rates of local recurrence 
and complications.8,9
•  There is evidence on the use of IGTA for selected patients with Stage 1A NSCLC, those who present with multiple lung cancers, or those who present with 
locoregional recurrence of symptomatic local thoracic disease.
• Like surgery, pneumothorax may occur after IGTA, particularly if multiple lesions are treated in a single session. Pneumothorax has been reported in 
18.7%–45.7% of IGTA cases. Self-limited pneumothorax, not requiring chest tube placement, is an expected event and not considered a complication 
unless escalation of care is required. In 20.7% of IGTA cases, chest tube insertion may be required.10
5 de Baere T, Tselikas L, Woodrum D, et al. Evaluating cryoablation of metastatic lung tumors 
in patients--safety and efficacy: The ECLIPSE Trial--interim analysis at 1 year. J Thorac Oncol 
2015;10:1468-1474.
1 Lam A, Yoshida EJ, Bui K, et al. Patient and facility demographics related outcomes in early-stage 6 Tada A, Hiraki T, Iguchi T, et al. Influence of radiofrequency ablation of lung cancer on pulmonary 
non-small cell lung cancer treated with radiofrequency ablation: a National Cancer Database function. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol 2012;35:860-867.
analysis. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2018;29:1535-1541. 7 Abtin F, De Baere T, Dupuy DE, et al. Updates on current role and practice of lung ablation. J 
2 Dupuy DE, DiPetrillo T, Gandhi S, et al. Radiofrequency ablation followed by conventional Thorac Imaging 2019;34:266-277. 
radiotherapy for medically inoperable stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Chest 2006;129:738-745. 8 Lee JM, Jin GY, Goldberg SN, et al. Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation for inoperable non-
3 Lencioni R, Crocetti L, Cioni R, et al. Response to radiofrequency ablation of pulmonary tumours: small cell lung cancer and metastases: preliminary report. Radiology 2004;230:125-134.
a prospective, intention-to-treat, multicentre clinical trial (the RAPTURE study). Lancet Oncol 9 Akeboshi M, Yamakado K, Nakatsuka A, et al. Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of lung 
2008;9:621-628. neoplasms: initial therapeutic response. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2004;15:463-470.
4 Dupuy DE, Fernando HC, Hillman S, et al. Radiofrequency ablation of stage IA non-small cell lung 10 Genshaft SJ, Suh RD, Abtin F, et al. Society of Interventional Radiology Quality Improvement 
cancer in medically inoperable patients: Results from the American College of Surgeons Oncology Standards on Percutaneous Ablation of Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer and Metastatic Disease to 
Group Z4033 (Alliance) trial. Cancer 2015;121:3491-3498. the Lungs. J Vasc Interv Radiol 2021;32:1242.e1-1242.e10.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-D
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR NEOADJUVANT AND ADJUVANT THERAPY
Preferred (nonsquamous)
• Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 day 1, pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days for 4 cycles1
Preferred (squamous)
• Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 day 1; gemcitabine 1250 mg/m2 days 1 and 8, every 21 days for 4 cycles2
• Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 day 1; docetaxel 75 mg/m2 day 1 every 21 days for 4 cycles3
Other Recommended
• Cisplatin 50 mg/m2 days 1 and 8; vinorelbine 25 mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15, and 22, every 28 days for 4 cycles4
• Cisplatin 100 mg/m2 day 1; vinorelbine 30 mg/m2 days 1, 8, 15, and 22, every 28 days for 4 cycles5,6
• Cisplatin 75–80 mg/m2 day 1; vinorelbine 25–30 mg/m2 days 1 and 8, every 21 days for 4 cycles
• Cisplatin 100 mg/m2 day 1; etoposide 100 mg/m2 days 1–3, every 28 days for 4 cycles5
Useful in Certain Circumstances 
Chemotherapy Regimens for Patients with Comorbidities or Patients Not Able to Tolerate Cisplatin
• Carboplatin AUC 6 day 1, paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 day 1, every 21 days for 4 cycles7
• Carboplatin AUC 5 day 1, gemcitabine 1000 mg/m2 days 1 and 8, every 21 days for 4 cycles8
• Carboplatin AUC 5 day 1, pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 day 1 for nonsquamous every 21 days for 4 cycles9
All chemotherapy regimens listed above can be used for sequential chemotherapy/RT. 
Previous Adjuvant Chemotherapy
• Osimertinib 80 mg daily10 
Osimertinib for patients with completely resected stage IB–IIIA EGFR (exon 19 deletion, L858R) NSCLC who received previous adjuvant 
chemotherapy or are ineligible to receive platinum-based chemotherapy. 
• Atezolizumab 840 mg every 2 weeks, 1200 mg every 3 weeks, or 1680 mg every 4 weeks for up to 1 year11
Atezolizumab for patients with completely resected stage IIB–IIIA or high risk stage IIA PD-L1 ≥1% NSCLC who received previous adjuvant 
chemotherapy.
References
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-E
1 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY REGIMENS FOR NEOADJUVANT AND ADJUVANT THERAPY – REFERENCES
1 Kreuter M, Vansteenkiste J, Fishcer JR, et al. Randomized phase 2 trial on refinement of early-stage NSCLC adjuvant chemotherapy with cisplatin and pemetrexed 
versus cisplatin and vinorelbine: the TREAT study. Ann Oncol 2013;24:986-992.
2 Pérol M, Chouaid C, Pérol D, et al. Randomized, phase III study of gemcitabine or erlotinib maintenance therapy versus observation, with predefined second-line 
treatment, after cisplatin-gemcitabine induction chemotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:3516-3524.
3 Fossella F, Pereira JR, von Pawel J, et al. Randomized, multinational, phase III study of docetaxel plus platinum combinations versus vinorelbine plus cisplatin for 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: the TAX 326 study group. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:3016-3024. 
4 Winton T, Livingston R, Johnson D, et al. Vinorelbine plus cisplatin vs. observation in resected non-small-lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2005;352:2589-2597.
5 Arriagada R, Bergman B, Dunant A, et al. The International Adjuvant Lung Cancer Trial Collaborative Group. Cisplatin-based adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with 
completely resected non-small cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;350:351-360.
6 Douillard JY, Rosell R, De Lena M, et al. Adjuvant vinorelbine plus cisplatin versus observation in patients with completely resected stage IB-IIIA non-small-cell lung 
cancer (Adjuvant Navelbine International Trialist Association [ANITA]): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2006;7:719-727.
7 Strauss GM, Herndon III JE, Maddaus MA, et al. Adjuvant paclitaxel plus carboplatin compared with observation in stage IB non-small cell lung cancer: CALGB 9633 
with the Cancer and Leukemia Group B, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group, and North Central Cancer Treatment Group Study Groups. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:5043-
5051.
8 Usami N, Yokoi K, Hasegawa Y, et al. Phase II study of carboplatin and gemcitabine as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with completely resected non-small cell lung 
cancer: a report from the Central Japan Lung Study Group, CJLSG 0503 trial. Int J Clin Oncol 2010;15:583-587.
9 Zhang L, Ou W, Liu Q, et al. Pemetrexed plus carboplatin as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with curative resected non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer. 
Thorac Cancer 2014;5:50-56.
10 Wu Y-L, Tsuboi M, He J, et al. Osimertinib in resected EGFR-mutated non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2020;383:1711-1723.
11 Felip E, Altorki N, Zhou C, et al. Adjuvant atezolizumab after adjuvant chemotherapy in resected stage IB–IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer (IMpower010): a 
randomised, multicentre, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2021;398:1344-1357.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-E
2 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CONCURRENT CHEMORADIATION REGIMENS
Concurrent Chemoradiation Regimens€
Preferred (nonsquamous)
• Carboplatin AUC 5 on day 1, pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 on day 1 every 21 days for 4 cycles; concurrent thoracic RT1,*,†,‡
• Cisplatin 75 mg/m2 on day 1, pemetrexed 500 mg/m2 on day 1 every 21 days for 3 cycles; concurrent thoracic RT2,3,*,†,‡ 
± additional 4 cycles of pemetrexed 500 mg/m2†,§
• Paclitaxel 45–50 mg/m2 weekly; carboplatin AUC 2, concurrent thoracic RT4,*,†,‡ ± additional 2 cycles every 21 days of paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 and 
carboplatin AUC 6†,§
• Cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1, 8, 29, and 36; etoposide 50 mg/m2 days 1–5 and 29–33; concurrent thoracic RT5,6,*,†,‡
Preferred (squamous)
• Paclitaxel 45–50 mg/m2 weekly; carboplatin AUC 2, concurrent thoracic RT6,*,†,‡ ± additional 2 cycles every 21 days of paclitaxel 200 mg/m2 and 
carboplatin AUC 6†,§
• Cisplatin 50 mg/m2 on days 1, 8, 29, and 36; etoposide 50 mg/m2 days 1–5 and 29–33; concurrent thoracic RT5,6,*,†,‡
Consolidation Immunotherapy for Patients with Unresectable Stage II/III NSCLC, PS 0–1, and No Disease Progression After Definitive Concurrent 
Chemoradiation
Durvalumab 10 mg/kg IV every 2 weeks or 1500 mg every 4 weeks for up to 12 months (patients with a body weight of ≥30 kg)7,8  
(category 1 for stage III; category 2A for stage II)
€ For patients with superior sulcus tumors, the recommendation is for 2 cycles concurrent with radiation therapy and 2 more cycles after surgery. Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et 
al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Trial 
0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318.
* Regimens can be used as preoperative/adjuvant chemotherapy/RT.
† Regimens can be used as definitive concurrent chemotherapy/RT.
‡ For eligible patients, durvalumab may be used after noted concurrent chemo/RT regimens.
§ If using durvalumab, an additional 2 cycles of chemotherapy is not recommended.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-F
1 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CONCURRENT CHEMORADIATION REGIMENS – REFERENCES
1 Govindan R, Bogart J, Stinchcombe T, et al. Randomized phase II study of pemetrexed, carboplatin, and thoracic radiation with or without cetuximab in patients with 
locally advanced unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: Cancer and Leukemia Group B trial 30407. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:3120-3125. 
2 Choy H, Gerber DE, Bradley JD, et al. Concurrent pemetrexed and radiation therapy in the treatment of patients with inoperable stage III non-small cell lung cancer: a 
systematic review of completed and ongoing studies. Lung Cancer 2015;87:232-240.
3 Senan S, Brade A, Wang LH, et al. PROCLAIM: randomized phase III trial of pemetrexed-cisplatin or etoposide-cisplatin plus thoracic radiation therapy followed by 
consolidation chemotherapy in locally advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:953-962.
4 Bradley JD, Paulus R, Komaki R, et al. Standard-dose versus high-dose conformal radiotherapy with concurrent and consolidation carboplatin plus paclitaxel with 
or without cetuximab for patients with stage IIIA or IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer (RTOG 0617): a randomised, two-by-two factorial phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 
2015;16:187-199.
5 Albain KS, Crowley JJ, Turrisi AT III, et al. Concurrent cisplatin, etoposide, and chest radiotherapy in pathologic stage IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer: A Southwest 
Oncology Group Phase II Study, SWOG 9019. J Clin Oncol 2002;20:3454-3460.
6 Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et al. Induction chemoradiation and surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: long-term results of 
Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318.
7 Baverel PG, Dubois VFS, Jin CY, et al. Population pharmacokinetics of durvalumab in cancer patients and association with longitudinal biomarkers of disease status. 
Clin Pharmacol Ther 2018;103:631-642.
8 Faivre-Finn C, Vicente D, Kurata T, et al. Four-year survival with durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III NSCLC-an update from the PACIFIC trial. J Thorac 
Oncol 2021;16:860-867.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-F
2 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CANCER SURVIVORSHIP CARE
NSCLC Long-Term Follow-up Care Additional Health Monitoring
• Cancer Surveillance (See NSCL-16) • Routine blood pressure, cholesterol, and glucose monitoring 
• Immunizations • Bone health: Bone density testing as appropriate 
Annual influenza vaccination • Dental health: Routine dental examinations
Herpes zoster vaccine • Routine sun protection 
Pneumococcal vaccination with revaccination as appropriate Resources
• See NCCN Guidelines for Survivorship • National Cancer Institute Facing Forward: Life After Cancer Treatment  
Counseling Regarding Health Promotion and Wellness1 https://www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/facing-
• Maintain a healthy weight forward
• Adopt a physically active lifestyle (Regular physical activity: 30 Cancer Screening Recommendations2,3
minutes of moderate-intensity physical activity on most days of  These recommendations are for average-risk individuals and high-risk 
the week) patients should be individualized.
• Consume a healthy diet with emphasis on plant sources • Colorectal Cancer:  
• Limit consumption of alcohol if one consumes alcoholic beverages See NCCN Guidelines for Colorectal Cancer Screening
• Prostate Cancer:  
See NCCN Guidelines for Prostate Cancer Early Detection
• Breast Cancer:  
See NCCN Guidelines for Breast Cancer Screening and Diagnosis
1 ACS Guidelines on Nutrition and Physical Activity for Cancer Prevention:  
http://www.cancer.org/healthy/eathealthygetactive/acsguidelinesonnutritionphysicalactivityforcancerprevention/index?sitearea=PED.
2 Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center Screening Guidelines: https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/risk-assessment-screening/screening-guidelines.
3 American Cancer Society Guidelines for Early Detection of Cancer: 
http://www.cancer.org/healthy/findcancerearly/cancerscreeningguidelines/american-cancer-society-guidelines-for-the-early-detection-of-cancer?sitearea=PED.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-G
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
Molecular Diagnostic Studies in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer
• Numerous gene alterations have been identified that impact therapy selection. Testing of lung cancer specimens for these alterations is important 
for identification of potentially efficacious targeted therapies, as well as avoidance of therapies unlikely to provide clinical benefit.  
• Some selection approaches for targeted therapy include predictive immunohistochemical analyses, which are distinct from immunohistochemical 
studies utilized to identify tumor type and lineage.
• Major elements of molecular testing that are critical for utilization and interpretation of molecular results include:
Use of a laboratory that is properly accredited, with a minimum of CLIA accreditation
Understanding the methodologies that are utilized and the major limitations of those methodologies 
Understanding the spectrum of alterations tested (and those not tested) by a specific assay
Knowledge of whether a tumor sample is subjected to pathologic review and tumor enrichment (ie, microdissection, macrodissection) prior to 
testing
The types of samples accepted by the testing laboratory
• Tissue Specimen Acquisition and Management:
Although tumor testing has been primarily focused on use of FFPE tissues, increasingly, laboratories accept other specimen types, notably 
cytopathology preparations not processed by FFPE methods. Although testing on cell blocks is not included in the FDA approval for multiple 
companion diagnostic assays, testing on these specimen types is highly recommended when it is the only or best material. 
A major limitation in obtaining tissue molecular testing results for NSCLC occurs when minimally invasive techniques are used to obtain samples; 
the yield may be insufficient for molecular, biomarker, and histologic testing. Therefore, bronchoscopists and interventional radiologists should 
procure sufficient tissue to enable all appropriate testing.
When tissue is minimal, laboratories should deploy techniques to maximize tissue for molecular and ancillary testing, including dedicated 
histology protocols for small biopsies, including “up-front” slide sectioning for diagnostic and predictive testing. Peripheral blood (plasma 
circulating tumor DNA) can be a surrogate sample (NSCL-H 7 of 7).
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
1 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• Testing Methodologies
Appropriate possible testing methodologies are indicated below for each analyte separately; however, several methodologies are generally 
considerations for use:
◊ Next-generation sequencing (NGS) is used in clinical laboratories. Not all types of alterations are detected by individual NGS assays and it is 
important to be familiar with the types of alterations identifiable in individual assays or combination(s) of assays.
◊ It is recommended at this time that when feasible, testing be performed via a broad, panel-based approach, most typically performed by NGS. 
For patients who, in broad panel testing don’t have identifiable driver oncogenes (especially in never smokers), consider RNA-based NGS if not 
already performed, to maximize detection of fusion events.
– Broad molecular profiling is defined as molecular testing that identifies all biomarkers identified in NSCL-19 in either a single assay or a 
combination of a limited number of assays, and optimally also identifies emerging biomarkers (NSCL-I). Tiered approaches based on low 
prevalence of co-occurring biomarkers are acceptable.
◊ Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can be used in a highly targeted fashion (specific mutations targeted). When this technology is 
deployed, only those specific alterations that are targeted by the assay are assessed. 
◊ Sanger sequencing requires the greatest degree of tumor enrichment. Unmodified Sanger sequencing is not appropriate for detection of 
mutations in tumor samples with less than 25% to 30% tumor after enrichment and is not appropriate for assays in which identification of 
subclonal events (eg, resistance mutations) is important. If Sanger sequencing is utilized, tumor enrichment methodologies are nearly always 
recommended.
◊ Any method that interrogates sequences other than a subset of highly specific alterations (eg, NGS, Sanger) has the potential to identify 
variants of uncertain significance (VUS). Any variant classified as a VUS, even if in a gene in which other variants are clinically actionable, 
should not be considered as a basis for targeted therapy selection.
◊ Other methodologies may be utilized, including multiplex approaches not listed above.
◊ Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) analysis is utilized for many assays examining copy number, amplification, and structural alterations 
such as gene rearrangements.  
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
2 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• Molecular Targets for Analysis
In general, the mutations/alterations described below are seen in a non-overlapping fashion, although between 1%–3% of NSCLC may harbor 
concurrent alterations.
EGFR (Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor) Gene Mutations: EGFR is a receptor tyrosine kinase normally found on the surface of epithelial cells and 
is often overexpressed in a variety of human malignancies. 
◊ The most commonly described mutations in EGFR (exon 19 deletions, p.L858R point mutation in exon 21) are associated with responsiveness to 
oral EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) therapy; most recent data indicate that tumors that do not harbor a sensitizing EGFR mutation should not 
be treated with EGFR TKI in any line of therapy.
◊ Molecular testing for EGFR mutations should be performed when adjuvant TKI therapy is a consideration for NSCLC stage IB–IIIA. While the 
testing process may be technically easier on a resection specimen, initial diagnostic biopsy specimens are also acceptable for testing for this 
indication. 
◊ Many of the less commonly observed alterations in EGFR, which cumulatively account for ~10% of EGFR-mutation positive NSCLC (ie, exon 19 
insertions, p.L861Q, p.G719X, p.S768I) are also associated with responsiveness to certain EGFR TKIs, such as osimertinib and afatinib, and should 
be considered on a mutation-specific basis, when possible.
◊ EGFR p.T790M is most commonly observed as a mutation that arises in response to and as a mechanism of resistance to first- and second-
generation EGFR TKI. In patients with progression on first- or second-generation TKI with p.T790M as the primary mechanism of resistance, third-
generation TKIs are typically efficacious. 
– If EGFR p.T790M is identified in the absence of prior EGFR TKI therapy, genetic counseling and possible germline genetic testing are warranted. 
Identification of germline EGFR p.T790M confers a high risk for lung cancer regardless of smoking status.
◊ EGFR exon 20 (EGFRex20) mutations (other than EGFR p.T790M) are a heterogeneous group, some of which are responsive to targeted therapy 
and that require detailed knowledge of the specific alteration. 
– Most EGFRex20 alterations are a diverse group of in-frame duplication or insertion mutations.  
▪ These are generally associated with lack of response to first-, second-, and third-generation EGFR TKI therapy, with select exceptions: 
p.A763_Y764insFQEA is associated with sensitivity to TKI therapy and p.A763_Y764insLQEA may be associated with sensitivity to first- and 
third-generation TKI therapy. 
▪ EGFRex20 insertions/duplications are associated with responsiveness to specific targeted subsequent therapy agents. The most commonly 
represented EGFRex20 insertions/duplications in the clinical studies have been insASV, insSVD, and insNPH, although a wide spectrum of 
other alterations were included. There is currently no evidence that the specific alteration type impacts the probability of responsiveness to 
this class of kinase inhibitor. 
▪ Because some EGFRex20 mutations are or may be sensitive to first- and third-generation inhibitors, the specific sequence of EGFRex20 
insertion mutations remains important. Some assays will identify the presence of an EGFRex20 insertion without specifying the sequence, and 
additional testing to further clarify the EGFRex20 insertion may be indicated for therapy selection.
▪ Targeted PCR-based approaches for detection of EGFR variants may under-detect EGFRex20 insertion events; therefore, NGS-based strategies 
are preferred.  
◊ Some clinicopathologic features—such as smoking status, ethnicity, and histology—are associated with the presence of an EGFR mutation; 
however, these features should not be utilized in selecting patients for testing.
◊ Testing Methodologies: Real-time PCR, Sanger sequencing (ideally paired with tumor enrichment), and NGS are the most commonly deployed 
methodologies for examining EGFR mutation status. 
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
3 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• Molecular Targets for Analysis (continued)
ALK (anaplastic lymphoma kinase) Gene Rearrangements: ALK is a receptor tyrosine kinase that can be rearranged in NSCLC, resulting in 
dysregulation and inappropriate signaling through the ALK kinase domain.
◊ The most common fusion partner seen with ALK is echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like 4 (EML4), although a variety of other fusion 
partners have been identified.
◊ The presence of an ALK rearrangement is associated with responsiveness to oral ALK TKIs.
◊ Some clinicopathologic features—such as smoking status and histology—have been associated with the presence of an ALK rearrangement; 
however, these features should not be utilized in selecting patients for testing.
◊ Testing Methodologies: FISH break-apart probe methodology was the first methodology deployed widely. IHC can be deployed as an effective 
screening strategy. FDA-approved IHC can be utilized as a stand-alone test, not requiring confirmation by FISH. Numerous NGS methodologies 
can detect ALK fusions. Targeted real-time PCR assays are used in some settings, although it is unlikely to detect fusions with novel partners.
ROS1 (ROS proto-oncogene 1) Gene Rearrangements: ROS1 is a receptor tyrosine kinase that can be rearranged in NSCLC, resulting in 
dysregulation and inappropriate signaling through the ROS1 kinase domain.
◊ Numerous fusion partners are seen with ROS1, and common fusion partners include: CD74, SLC34A2, CCDC6, and GOPC (FIG).
◊ The presence of a ROS1 rearrangement is associated with responsiveness to oral ROS1 TKIs.
◊ Some clinicopathologic features—such as smoking status and histology—have been associated with the presence of a ROS1 rearrangement; 
however, these features should not be utilized in selecting patients for testing.
◊ Testing Methodologies: FISH break-apart probe methodology can be deployed; however, it may under-detect the FIG-ROS1 variant. IHC 
approaches can be deployed; however, IHC for ROS1 fusions has low specificity, and follow-up confirmatory testing is a necessary component 
of utilizing ROS1 IHC as a screening modality. Numerous NGS methodologies can detect ROS1 fusions, although DNA-based NGS may under-
detect ROS1 fusions. Targeted real-time PCR assays are utilized in some settings, although they are unlikely to detect fusions with novel 
partners.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
4 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• Molecular Targets for Analysis (continued)
BRAF (B-Raf proto-oncogene) point mutations: BRAF is a serine/threonine kinase that is part of the canonical MAP/ERK signaling pathway. 
Activating mutations in BRAF result in unregulated signaling through the MAP/ERK pathway.
◊ Mutations in BRAF can be seen in NSCLC. The presence of a specific mutation resulting in a change in amino acid position 600 (p.V600E) has 
been associated with responsiveness to combined therapy with oral inhibitors of BRAF and MEK.
◊ Note that other mutations in BRAF are observed in NSCLC, and the impact of those mutations on therapy selection is not well understood at 
this time.
◊ Testing Methodologies: Real-time PCR, Sanger sequencing (ideally paired with tumor enrichment), and NGS are the most commonly deployed 
methodologies for examining BRAF mutation status. While an anti-BRAF p.V600E-specific monoclonal antibody is commercially available, and 
some studies have examined utilizing this approach, it should only be deployed after extensive validation. 
KRAS (KRAS proto-oncogene) point mutations: KRAS is a G-protein with intrinsic GTPase activity, and activating mutations result in 
unregulated signaling through the MAP/ERK pathway.
◊ Mutations in KRAS are most commonly seen at codon 12, although other mutations can be seen in NSCLC.
◊ The presence of a KRAS mutation is prognostic of poor survival when compared to patients with tumors without KRAS mutation.
◊ Mutations in KRAS have been associated with reduced responsiveness to EGFR TKI therapy. 
◊ Owing to the low probability of overlapping targetable alterations, the presence of a known activating mutation in KRAS identifies patients who 
are unlikely to benefit from further molecular testing.
◊ The presence of KRAS p.G12C is associated with responsiveness to an oral KRAS G12C inhibitor used for subsequent therapy, which was 
designed specifically for this mutation. Responsiveness to this class of inhibitor has not been prospectively evaluated with mutations other 
than KRAS p.G12C.
◊ Testing methodologies: NGS, real-time PCR, and Sanger sequencing (ideally paired with tumor enrichment) are the most commonly deployed 
methodologies for examining KRAS mutation status. 
MET (mesenchymal-epithelial transition) exon 14 (METex14) skipping variants: MET is a receptor tyrosine kinase. A mutation that results in loss of 
exon 14 can occur in NSCLC. Loss of METex14 leads to dysregulation and inappropriate signaling.
◊ The presence of METex14 skipping mutation is associated with responsiveness to oral MET TKIs.
◊ A broad range of molecular alterations lead to METex14 skipping.
◊ Testing Methodologies: NGS-based testing is the primary method for detection of METex14 skipping events; RNA-based NGS may have 
improved detection. IHC is not a method for detection of METex14 skipping.
RET (rearranged during transfection) Gene Rearrangements: RET is a receptor tyrosine kinase that can be rearranged in NSCLC, resulting in 
dysregulation and inappropriate signaling through the RET kinase domain.
◊ Common fusion partners are KIF5B, NCOA4, and CCDC6; however, numerous other fusion partners have been identified.
◊ The presence of a RET rearrangement is associated with responsiveness to oral RET TKIs regardless of fusion partner.
◊ Testing Methodologies: FISH break-apart probe methodology can be deployed; however, it may under-detect some fusions. Targeted real-time 
reverse-transcriptase PCR assays are utilized in some settings, although they are unlikely to detect fusions with novel partners. NGS-based 
methodology has a high specificity, and RNA-based NGS is preferable to DNA-based NGS for fusion detection. 
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
5 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• Molecular Targets for Analysis (continued)
NTRK1/2/3 (neurotrophic tyrosine receptor kinase) gene fusions
◊ The presence of NTRK1/2/3 gene fusions is associated with responsiveness to oral TRK inhibitors.
◊ NTRK1/2/3 are tyrosine receptor kinases that are rarely rearranged in NSCLC as well as in other tumor types, resulting in dysregulation and 
inappropriate signaling. 
◊ Numerous fusion partners have been identified. 
◊ To date, no specific clinicopathologic features, other than absence of other driver alterations, have been identified in association with these 
fusions. 
◊ Point mutations in NTRK1/2/3 are generally non-activating and have not been studied in association with targeted therapy.
◊ Testing Methodologies: Various methodologies can be used to detect NTRK1/2/3 gene fusions, including: FISH, IHC, PCR, and NGS; false 
negatives may occur. IHC methods are complicated by baseline expression in some tissues. FISH testing may require at least 3 probe sets for 
full analysis. NGS testing can detect a broad range of alterations. DNA-based NGS may under-detect NTRK1 and NTRK3 fusions.
•  In the event that a complete assessment for all biomarkers cannot be reasonably accomplished prior to initiation of therapy, consider repeat panel 
testing or selected biomarker testing at progression on first-line therapy if a lesion can be accessed for sampling and testing.
• Testing in the Setting of Progression on Targeted Therapy:
For many of the above listed analytes, there is growing recognition of the molecular mechanisms of resistance to therapy. Re-testing of a sample 
from a tumor that is actively progressing while exposed to targeted therapy can shed light on appropriate next therapeutic steps:
◊ For patients with an underlying EGFR sensitizing mutation who have been treated with EGFR TKI, minimum appropriate testing includes high-
sensitivity evaluation for p.T790M; when there is no evidence of p.T790M, testing for alternate mechanisms of resistance (MET amplification, 
ERBB2 amplification) may be used to direct patients for additional therapies. The presence of p.T790M can direct patients to third-generation 
EGFR TKI therapy.  
– Assays for the detection of EGFR p.T790M should be designed to have an analytic sensitivity of a minimum of 5% allelic fraction. The original 
sensitizing mutation can be utilized as an internal control in many assays to determine whether a p.T790M is within the range of detection if 
present as a sub-clonal event.
◊ For patients with underlying ALK rearrangement who have been treated with ALK TKI, it is unclear whether identification of specific tyrosine 
kinase domain mutation can identify appropriate next steps in therapy, although some preliminary data suggest that specific kinase domain 
mutations can impact next line of therapy.
◊  Broad genomic profiling may be the most informative approach to examining potential mechanisms of resistance, which may require more than 
one instance of such profiling over the course of an individual patient’s therapy.
• Testing in the setting of a limited number of pulmonary nodules can aid in distinguishing separate primary lung carcinoma versus intrapulmonary 
metastatic disease.
Studies to explore tumor relatedness by testing tissue from separately sampled lesions using a broad gene coverage NGS approach suggest it 
may be superior to histopathologic assessment. 
Tumor pairs exhibiting entirely non-overlapping, unique mutations are considered clonally unrelated separate primary lung cancers, even if 
histologically similar. Tumors that share multiple (≥2) mutations are more likely to be clonally related; however, this may depend on the extent to 
which any individual mutation is extremely common in NSCLC and whether identified alterations are driver or passenger alterations. Results in 
which no mutations or only one mutation are identified are not informative for this evaluation.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
6 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
PRINCIPLES OF MOLECULAR AND BIOMARKER ANALYSIS
• PD-L1 (programmed death ligand 1): PD-L1 is a co-regulatory molecule that can be expressed on tumor cells and inhibit T-cell–mediated cell death. 
T-cells express PD-1, a negative regulator, which binds to ligands including PD-L1 (CD274) or PD-L2 (CD273). In the presence of PD-L1, T-cell 
activity is suppressed.
Checkpoint inhibitor antibodies block the PD-1 and PD-L1 interaction, thereby improving the antitumor effects of endogenous T cells.
IHC for PD-L1 can be utilized to identify disease most likely to respond to first-line anti PD-1/PD-L1.
◊ Various antibody clones have been developed for IHC analysis of PD-L1 expression, and while several are comparable regarding intensity and 
proportion of cells stained, some are not.
– The definition of positive and negative testing is dependent on the individual antibody, clone, and platform deployed, which may be unique 
to each checkpoint inhibitor therapy. The approval of multiple different assays for PD-L1 has raised concern among both pathologists and 
oncologists.
– While some clones for PD-L1 IHC are FDA-approved for specific indications, use of multiple IHC tests is not necessary, provided any 
individual IHC test has been internally validated for comparability for categorical results against the FDA-approved clone.  
– Interpretation of PD-L1 IHC in NSCLC is typically focused on the proportion of tumor cells expressing membranous staining at any level and 
therefore is a linear variable; scoring systems may be different in other tumor types. 
◊ Although PD-L1 expression can be elevated in patients with an oncogenic driver, targeted therapy for the oncogenic driver should take 
precedence over treatment with an immune checkpoint inhibitor. 
• Plasma Cell-Free/Circulating Tumor DNA Testing: 
Cell-free/circulating tumor DNA testing should not be used in lieu of a histologic tissue diagnosis.
Some laboratories offer testing for molecular alterations examining nucleic acids in peripheral circulation, most commonly in processed plasma 
(sometimes referred to as "liquid biopsy").  
Studies have demonstrated cell-free tumor DNA testing to generally have very high specificity, but significantly compromised sensitivity, with up 
to a 30% false-negative rate; however, data support complementary testing to reduce turnaround time and increase yield of targetable alteration 
detection.
Published guidelines elaborating standards for analytical performance characteristics of cell-free tumor DNA have not been established, and in 
contrast to tissue-based testing, no guidelines exist regarding the recommended performance characteristics of this type of testing.
Cell-free tumor DNA testing can identify alterations that are unrelated to a lesion of interest, for example, clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate 
potential (CHIP).
The use of cell-free/circulating tumor DNA testing can be considered in specific clinical circumstances, most notably:
◊ If a patient is medically unfit for invasive tissue sampling
◊ In the initial diagnostic setting, if following pathologic confirmation of a NSCLC diagnosis there is insufficient material for molecular analysis, 
cell-free/circulating tumor DNA should be used only if follow-up tissue-based analysis is planned for all patients in which an oncogenic driver is 
not identified (see NSCL-18 for oncogenic drivers with available targeted therapy options).
◊ In the initial diagnostic setting, if tissue-based testing does not completely assess all recommended biomarkers owing to tissue quantity or 
testing methodologies available, consider repeat biopsy and/or cell-free/circulating tumor DNA testing.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-H
7 OF 7
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
EMERGING BIOMARKERS TO IDENTIFY NOVEL THERAPIES FOR PATIENTS WITH METASTATIC NSCLC
Genetic Alteration (ie, Driver event) Available Targeted Agents with Activity 
Against Driver Event in Lung Cancer
Crizotinib1-2
High-level MET amplification* Capmatinib3
Tepotinib4
ERBB2 (HER2) mutations** Ado-trastuzumab emtansine5
Fam-trastuzumab deruxtecan-nxki6
* The definition of high-level MET amplification is evolving and may differ according to the assay 
used for testing. For NGS-based results, a copy number greater than 10 is consistent with 
high-level MET amplification.
** For oncogenic or likely oncogenic HER2 mutations, refer to definitions at oncokb.org. 
1 Ou SH, Kwak EL, Siwak-Tapp C, et al. Activity of crizotinib (PF02341066), a dual mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET) and anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) 
inhibitor, in a non-small cell lung cancer patient with de novo MET amplification. J Thorac Oncol 2011;6:942-946.
2 Camidge RD, Ou S-HI, Shapiro G, et al. Efficacy and safety of crizotinib in patients with advanced c-MET-amplified non-small cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 
2014;32(suppl_5):Abstract 8001.
3 Wolf J, Seto T, Han JY, et al; GEOMETRY mono-1 Investigators. Capmatinib in MET exon 14-mutated or MET-amplified non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
2020;383:944-957.
4 Le X, Paz-Ares LG, Van Meerbeeck, J, et al. Tepotinib in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) with MET amplification (METamp). J Clin Oncol 
2021;39(suppl_15):Abstract 9021.
5 Li BT, Shen R, Buonocore D, et al. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine in patients with HER2 mutant lung cancers: Results from a phase II basket trial. J Clin Oncol 2 
Li BT, Smit EF, Goto Y, et al. Trastuzumab deruxtecan in HER2-mutant non-small cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2021;Sept 18.doi:10.1056/NEJMoa2112431. Online 
ahead of print.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-I
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
TARGETED THERAPY OR IMMUNOTHERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASEa,b 
EGFR Exon 19 Deletion or L858R ALK Rearrangement Positive MET Exon 14 Skipping Mutation
• First-line therapy • First-line therapy • First-line therapy/Subsequent therapy
Afatinib1 Alectinib15,16 Capmatinib35
Erlotinib2 Brigatinib17 Crizotinib36
Dacomitinib3 Ceritinib18 Tepotinib37
Gefitinib4,5 Crizotinib15,19
Osimertinib6 Lorlatinib20 RET Rearrangement Positive
Erlotinib + ramucirumab7 • Subsequent therapy • First-line therapy/Subsequent therapy
Erlotinib + bevacizumabc (nonsquamous)8 Alectinib21,22 Selpercatinib38
• Subsequent therapy Brigatinib23 Pralsetinib39
Osimertinib9 Ceritinib24 Cabozantinib40.41
Lorlatinib25
EGFR S768I, L861Q, and/or G719X PD-L1 ≥1%
First-line therapy ROS1 Rearrangement Positive • First-line therapyd
Afatinib1,10 • First-line therapy Pembrolizumab43-45
Erlotinib2 Ceritinib24 (Carboplatin or cisplatin)/pemetrexed/
Dacomitinib3 Crizotinib27 pembrolizumab (nonsquamous)46
Gefitinib4,5 Entrectinib28 Carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumabc/
Osimertinib6,11 • Subsequent therapy atezolizumab (nonsquamous)47
• Subsequent therapy Lorlatinib29 Carboplatin/(paclitaxel or albumin-bound 
Osimertinib9 Entrectinib28 paclitaxel)/pembrolizumab (squamous)48
Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel/
EGFR Exon 20 Insertion Mutation Positive BRAF V600E Mutation Positive atezolizumab (nonsquamous)48
• Subsequent therapy • First-line therapy Nivolumab/ipilimumab49
Amivantamab-vmjw12 Dabrafenib/trametinib30 Nivolumab/ipilimumab/pemetrexed/ (carboplatin 
Mobocertinib13 Dabrafenib30 or cisplatin) (nonsquamous)50
Vemurafenib Nivolumab/ipilimumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin 
KRAS G12C Mutation Positive • Subsequent therapy (squamous)50
• Subsequent therapy Dabrafenib/trametinib31,32
Sotorasib14 PD-L1 ≥50% (in addition to above)
NTRK1/2/3 Gene Fusion Positive • First-line therapyd
• First-line/Subsequent therapy Atezolizumab51
Larotrectinib33 Cemiplimab-rwlc52
Entrectinib34
a Monitoring During Initial Therapy: Response assessment after 2 cycles, then every 2–4 cycles with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast or 
when clinically indicated. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
b Monitoring During Subsequent Therapy or Maintenance Therapy: Response assessment with CT of known or high-risk sites of disease with or without contrast every 
6–12 weeks. Timing of CT scans within Guidelines parameters is a clinical decision.
c An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for bevacizumab.
d Continuation maintenance refers to the use of at least one of the agents given in first line, beyond 4–6 cycles, in the absence of disease progression. 
References
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-J
1 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
TARGETED THERAPY OR IMMUNOTHERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASE -- REFERENCES
1 Yang JC, et al. Afatinib versus cisplatin based chemotherapy for EGFR mutation 17 Camidge DR, et al. Brigatinib versus crizotinib in ALK-positive non-small-cell 35 Wolf J, et al; GEOMETRY mono-1 Investigators. Capmatinib in MET exon 
positive lung adenocarcinoma (LUX Lung 3 and LUX Lung 6): analysis of lung cancer. N Eng J Med 2018;379:2027-2039. 14-mutated or MET-amplified non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
overall survival data from two randomised, phase 3 trials. Lancet Oncol 18 Soria JC, et al. First line ceritinib versus platinum based chemotherapy 2020;383:944-957.
2015;16:141-151. in advanced ALK rearranged non small cell lung cancer (ASCEND 4): a 36 Drilon A, et al. Antitumor activity of crizotinib in lung cancers harboring a MET 
2 Rosell R, et al. Erlotinib versus standard chemotherapy as first line treatment for randomised, open label, phase 3 study. Lancet 2017;389:917-929. exon 14 alteration. Nat Med 2020;26:47-51.
European patients with advanced EGFR mutation positive non small cell lung 19 Solomon BJ, et al. First line crizotinib versus chemotherapy in ALK positive 37 Paik PK, et al. Tepotinib in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer with MET Exon 14 
cancer (EURTAC): a multicentre, open label, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2014;371:2167-2177. Skipping Mutations. N Engl J Med 2020;383:931-943.
Oncol 2012;13:239-246. 20 Shaw, AT, et al. First-line lorlatinib or crizotinib in advanced ALK-positive 38 Drilon A, et al. Efficacy of selpercatinib in RET fusion-positive non-small-cell 
3 Wu Y-L, et al. Dacomitinib versus gefitinib as first-line treatment for patients lungcCancer. N Engl J Med 2020;383;2018-2029. lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2020;383:813-824.
with EGFR-mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (ARCHER 1050): a 21 Ou SI, et al. Alectinib in crizotinib refractory ALK rearranged non small cell lung 39 Gainor JF, et al. Pralsetinib for RET fusion-positive non-small cell lung 
randomized, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:1454-1466. cancer: a phase II global study. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:661-668. cancer (ARROW): a multi-cohort, open-label, phase 1/2 study. Lancet Oncol 
4 Mok TS, et al. Gefitinib or carboplatin paclitaxel in pulmonary adenocarcinoma. 22 Shaw AT, et al. Alectinib in ALK positive, crizotinib resistant, non small cell lung 2021;22:959-969. 
N Engl J Med 2009;361:947-957. cancer: a single group, multicentre, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:234- 40 Drilon A, et al. Response to cabozantinib in patients with RET fusion-positive 
5 Douillard JY, et al. First line gefitinib in Caucasian EGFR mutation positive 242. lung adenocarcinomas. Cancer Discov 2013;3:630-635.
NSCLC patients: a phase IV, open label, single arm study. Br J Cancer 23 Kim DW, et al. Brigatinib in patients with crizotinib refractory anaplastic 41 Drilon A, et al. Cabozantinib in patients with advanced RET-rearranged non-
2014;110:55-62. lymphoma kinase positive non small cell lung cancer: a randomized, multicenter small-cell lung cancer: an open-label, single-centre, phase 2, single-arm trial. 
6 Soria JC, et al. Osimertinib in untreated EGFR-mutated advanced non-small- phase II trial. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:2490-2498. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1653-1660.
cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;378:113-125. 24 Shaw AT, et al. Ceritinib versus chemotherapy in patients with ALK-rearranged 42 Reck M, et al. Pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy for PD L1 positive non 
7 Nakagawa K, et al. Ramucirumab plus erlotinib in patients with untreated, non-small-cell lung cancer previously given chemotherapy and crizotinib small cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2016;375:1823-1833.
EGFR-mutated, advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (RELAY): a randomised, (ASCEND-5): a randomised, controlled, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 43 Langer CJ, et al. Carboplatin and pemetrexed with or without pembrolizumab 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:1655- 2017;18:874-86. for advanced, non squamous non small cell lung cancer: a randomised, phase 
1669. 25 Solomon BJ, et al. Lorlatinib in patients with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung 2 cohort of the open label KEYNOTE 021 study. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1497-
8 Saito H, et al. Erlotinib plus bevacizumab versus erlotinib alone in patients with cancer: results from a global phase 2 study. Lancet Oncol 2018;19:1654-1667. 1508.
EGFR-positive advanced non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (NEJ026): 26 Lim SM, et al. Open-label, multicenter, phase II study of ceritinib in patients 44 Mok TSK, et al. Pembrolizumab versus chemotherapy for previously untreated, 
interim analysis of an open-label, randomised, multicentre, phase 3 trial. Lancet with non-small-cell lung cancer harboring ROS1 rearrangement. J Clin Oncol PD-L1-expressing, locally advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer 
Oncol 2019;20:625-635. 2017;35:2613-2618. (Keynote-042): a randomized open-label, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 
9 Mok TS, et al. Osimertinib or platinum pemetrexed in EGFR T790M positive 27 Shaw AT, et al. Crizotinib in ROS1-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer. N 2019;393:1819-1830. 
lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2017;376:629-640. Engl J Med 2014;371:1963-1971. 45 Gandhi L, et al. Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in metastatic non-small-
10 Yang JC, et al. Clinical activity of afatinib in patients with advanced non- 28 Drilon A, et al. Entrectinib in ROS1 fusion-positive non-small-cell lung cancer: cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;378:2078-2092.
small-cell lung cancer harbouring uncommon EGFR mutations: a combined integrated analysis of three phase 1-2 trials. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:261-270. 46 
29 Socinski M, et al. Atezolizumab for first-line treatment of metastatic 
post-hoc analysis of LUX-Lung 2, LUX-Lung 3, and LUX-Lung 6. Lancet Oncol. Shaw AT, et al. ALK resistance mutations and efficacy of lorlatinib in advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. N Engl J Med 2018;378:2288-2301.
2015;16:830-8. anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 47 Paz-Ares L, et al. Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy for squamous non-small-
11 Cho JH, et al. Osimertinib for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer harboring 2019;37:1370-1379. cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;379:2040-2051.
uncommon EGFR mutations: a multicenter, open-label, phase II trial (KCSG- 30 Planchard D, et al. Dabrafenib plus trametinib in patients with previously 48 West H, et al. Atezolizumab in combination with carboplatin plus nab-paclitaxel 
LU15-09). J Clin Oncol. 2020;38:488-495. untreated BRAF(V600E)-mutant metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: an chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone as first-line treatment 
12 Park K, et al. Amivantamab in EGFR exon 20 insertion-mutated non-small open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:1307-1316. for metastatic non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (IMpower130): a 
cell lung cancer progressing on platinum chemotherapy: initial results from the 31 Planchard D, et al. Dabrafenib plus trametinib in patients with previously multicentre, randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2019;20:924-
CHRYSALIS phase I study. J Clin Oncol 2021 Epub August 2, 2021. treated BRAF(V600E) mutant metastatic non small cell lung cancer: an open 937
13 Ramalingam SS, et al. Mobocertinib (TAK-788) in EGFR exon 20 insertion label, multicentre phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:984-993. 49 Hellmann MD, et al. Nivolumab plus ipilimumab in advanced non-small-cell 
(ex20ins)+ metastatic NSCLC (mNSCLC): Additional results from platinum- 32 Planchard D, et al. Updated survival of patients (pts) with previously treated lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2019;381:2020-2031.
pretreated patients (pts) and EXCLAIM cohort of phase 1/2 study [abstract]. J BRAF V600E–mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who 50 Paz-Ares L, et al. First-line nivolumab plus ipilimumab combined with two 
Clin Oncol 2021;39:9014-9014. received dabrafenib (D) or D + trametinib (T) in the phase II BRF113928 study cycles of chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (CheckMate 
14 Skoulidis F, et al. Sotorasib for lung cancers with KRAS p.G12C mutation. N [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2017;35: Abstract 9075. 9LA): an international, randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 
Engl J Med 2021;384:2371-2381. 33 Drilon A, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in TRK fusion-positive cancers in adults 2021;22;198-211.
15 Peters S, et al. Alectinib versus crizotinib in untreated ALK-positive non-small- and children. N Engl J Med 2018;378:731-739. 51 Herbst RS, et al. Atezolizumab for first-line treatment of PD-L1-selected 
cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2017;377:829-838. 34 Doebele RC, et al. Entrectinib in patients with advanced or metastatic NTRK patients with NSCLC. N Engl J Med 2020;383:1328-1339.
16 Hida T, et al. Alectinib versus crizotinib in patients with ALK-positive non-small- fusion-positive solid tumours: integrated analysis of three phase 1-2 trials. 52 Sezer A, et al. Cemiplimab monotherapy for first-line treatment of advanced 
cell lung cancer (J-ALEX): an open-label, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Lancet Oncol 2020;21:271-282. non-small-cell lung cancer with PD-L1 of at least 50%: a multicentre, open-
2017;390:29-39. label, global, phase 3, randomised, controlled trial. Lancet 2021;397:592-604.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-J 
2 OF 2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASEa,b,c
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS (PS 0–1)
No contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitorsd Contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitorsd 
Preferred Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Pembrolizumab/carboplatin/pemetrexed (category 1)1,2,e • Bevacizumabe/carboplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)7,g,h,i
• Pembrolizumab/cisplatin/pemetrexed (category 1)2,e • Bevacizumabe/carboplatin/pemetrexed7,8,g,h,i
 • Bevacizumabe/cisplatin/pemetrexed9,g,h,i
Other Recommended • Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel (category 1)10
• Atezolizumab/carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumabe (category 1)3,f,g,h,i • Carboplatin/docetaxel (category 1)11
• Atezolizumab/carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel4,e • Carboplatin/etoposide (category 1)12,13
• Nivolumab/ipilimumab5,d • Carboplatin/gemcitabine (category 1)14
• Nivolumab/ipilimumab/pemetrexed/(carboplatin or cisplatin) • Carboplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)15
(category 1) 6,e • Carboplatin/pemetrexed (category 1)16
• Cisplatin/docetaxel (category 1)11
• Cisplatin/etoposide (category 1)17
• Cisplatin/gemcitabine (category 1)15,18
• Cisplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)19
• Cisplatin/pemetrexed (category 1)18
• Gemcitabine/docetaxel (category 1)20
• Gemcitabine/vinorelbine (category 1)21
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS (PS 2)
Preferred Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Carboplatin/pemetrexed16 • Albumin-bound paclitaxel22
• Docetaxel25,26
Other Recommended • Gemcitabine27-29
• Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel23,24 • Gemcitabine/docetaxel20
• Carboplatin/docetaxel11 • Gemcitabine/vinorelbine21 Maintenance Therapy NSCL-K 3 of 5 
• Carboplatin/etoposide12,13 • Paclitaxel30-32
• Carboplatin/gemcitabine14 • Pemetrexed33 Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5 
• Carboplatin/paclitaxel15 References
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS (PS 3–4)
Best supportive care See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care d Contraindications for treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may include active or previously 
documented autoimmune disease and/or current use of immunosuppressive agents, or 
presence of an oncogene (ie, EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK rearrangements), which 
a Albumin-bound paclitaxel may be substituted for either paclitaxel or docetaxel in patients who would predict lack of benefit.  
have experienced hypersensitivity reactions after receiving paclitaxel or docetaxel despite e If progression on PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, using a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor is not recommended. 
premedication, or for patients where the standard premedications (ie, dexamethasone, H2 f An FDA-approved biosimilar is an appropriate substitute for bevacizumab.
blockers, H1 blockers) are contraindicated. g Bevacizumab should be given until progression.
b Carboplatin-based regimens are often used for patients with comorbidities or those who cannot h Any regimen with a high risk of thrombocytopenia and the potential risk of bleeding should be 
tolerate cisplatin.
C used with caution in combination with bevacizumab.
If first-line systemic therapy completed before treatment for an actionable mutation, and i Criteria for treatment with bevacizumab: non-squamous NSCLC, and no recent history of 
disease has progressed, see Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5. hemoptysis. Bevacizumab should not be given as a single agent, unless as maintenance if 
initially used with chemotherapy.
Continued
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-K
1 OF 5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASEa,b,c
SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 0–1)
No contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitorsd Contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitorsd
Preferred Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Pembrolizumab/carboplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)34,e • Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel (category 1)9
• Pembrolizumab/carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel  • Carboplatin/docetaxel (category 1)11
(category 1)34,e • Carboplatin/gemcitabine (category 1)14
• Carboplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)15
Other recommended • Cisplatin/docetaxel (category 1)11
• Nivolumab/ipilimumab5,e • Cisplatin/etoposide (category 1)17
• Nivolumab/ipilimumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin 
(category 1)6,e • Cisplatin/gemcitabine (category 1)15,18
• Cisplatin/paclitaxel (category 1)19
• Gemcitabine/docetaxel (category 1)20
• Gemcitabine/vinorelbine (category 1)21
SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 2)
Preferred Useful in Certain Circumstances
• Carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel23,24 • Albumin-bound paclitaxel22
• Carboplatin/gemcitabine14 • Docetaxel25,26
• Carboplatin/paclitaxel15 • Gemcitabine27-29
• Gemcitabine/docetaxel20
Other Recommended • Gemcitabine/vinorelbine21
• Carboplatin/docetaxel11 • Paclitaxel30-32
• Carboplatin/etoposide12,13
Maintenance Therapy NSCL-K 3 of 5 
SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 3–4)
Best supportive care See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5 
References
a Albumin-bound paclitaxel may be substituted for either paclitaxel or docetaxel in patients who have experienced hypersensitivity reactions after receiving paclitaxel or docetaxel despite 
premedication, or for patients where the standard premedications (ie, dexamethasone, H2 blockers, H1 blockers) are contraindicated. 
b Carboplatin-based regimens are often used for patients with comorbidities or those who cannot tolerate cisplatin.
C If first-line systemic therapy completed before treatment for an actionable mutation, and disease has progressed, see Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5. 
d Contraindications for treatment with PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors may include active or previously documented autoimmune disease and/or current use of immunosuppressive agents or 
presence of an oncogene (ie, EGFR exon 19 deletion or L858R, ALK rearrangements), which would predict lack of benefit. 
e If progression on PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, using a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor is not recommended. 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-K
2 OF 5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASE – MAINTENANCE
Maintenance Therapy
• Continuation maintenance refers to the use of at least one of the agents given in first line, beyond 4–6 cycles, in the absence of disease 
progression. Switch maintenance refers to the initiation of a different agent, not included as part of the first-line regimen, in the absence of 
disease progression, after 4–6 cycles of initial therapy. 
• Patients should receive maintenance therapy for 2 years if they received front-line immunotherapy.
• Patients should receive maintenance therapy until progression if they received second-line immunotherapy.
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS (PS 0–2) SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 0–2)
Continuation maintenance Continuation maintenance
• Bevacizumab (category 1) • Pembrolizumabo
• Pemetrexed (category 1) • Nivolumab/ipilimumabm
• Bevacizumab/pemetrexedj • Gemcitabine (category 2B)
• Pembrolizumab/pemetrexed (category 1)k
• Atezolizumab/bevacizumab (category 1)l
• Nivolumab/ipilimumabm
• Atezolizumabn
• Gemcitabine (category 2B)
Switch maintenance
• Pemetrexed
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS, SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 3–4)
Best supportive care See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care
Subsequent Therapy NSCL-K 4 of 5 
References
j If bevacizumab was used with a first-line pemetrexed/platinum chemotherapy regimen.
k If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/pemetrexed or pembrolizumab/cisplatin/pemetrexed given.
l If atezolizumab/carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumab given.
m If nivolumab + ipilimumab ± chemotherapy given.
n If atezolizumab/carboplatin/albumin-bound paclitaxel given.
o If pembrolizumab/carboplatin/(paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel) given.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-K
3 OF 5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASE – SUBSEQUENT
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS (PS 0–2) SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 0–2)
Preferred (no previous IO): Preferred (no previous IO):
Systemic immune checkpoint inhibitorse Systemic immune checkpoint inhibitorse
• Nivolumab (category 1) • Nivolumab (category 1)
• Pembrolizumab (category 1)q • Pembrolizumab (category 1)q 
• Atezolizumab (category 1) • Atezolizumab (category 1)
Other Recommended (no previous IO or previous IO):r Other Recommended (no previous IO or previous IO):r
• Docetaxel • Docetaxel
• Pemetrexed • Gemcitabine
• Gemcitabine • Ramucirumab/docetaxel
• Ramucirumab/docetaxel • Albumin-bound paclitaxel
• Albumin-bound paclitaxel
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOS, SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMA (PS 3–4)
Best supportive care See NCCN Guidelines for Palliative Care
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASE – PROGRESSION
ADENOCARCINOMA, LARGE CELL, NSCLC NOSe,r SQUAMOUS CELL CARCINOMAe,r
• PS 0–2: nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab,  • PS 0–2: nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab,  
docetaxel (category 2B), pemetrexed (category 2B), gemcitabine docetaxel (category 2B), gemcitabine (category 2B),  
(category 2B), ramucirumab/docetaxel (category 2B), or albumin- ramucirumab/docetaxel (category 2B), or albumin-bound paclitaxel 
bound paclitaxel (category 2B) (category 2B)
• PS 3–4: Best supportive care • PS 3–4: Best supportive care
• Options for further progression are best supportive care or clinical • Options for further progression are best supportive care or clinical 
trial. trial. References
e If progression on PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, using a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor is not recommended.
q Pembrolizumab is approved for patients with NSCLC tumors with PD-L1 expression levels ≥1%, as determined by an FDA-approved test. 
r If not previously given. 
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-K
4 OF 5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
SYSTEMIC THERAPY FOR ADVANCED OR METASTATIC DISEASE – REFERENCES
1 Langer CJ, et al. Carboplatin and pemetrexed with or without pembrolizumab for advanced, non- 18 Scagliotti GV, Parikh P, von Pawel J, et al. Phase III study comparing cisplatin plus gemcitabine with 
squamous non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, phase 2 cohort of the open-label KEYNOTE-021 cisplatin plus pemetrexed in chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced-stage NSCLC. J Clin Oncol 
study. Lancet Oncol. 2016;17:1497-1508. 2008;26:3543-3551.
2 Gandhi L, Rodriguez-Abreu D, Gadgeel S, et al. Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy in metastatic non- 19 Schiller JH, Harrington D, Belani CP, et al. Comparison of four chemotherapy regimens for advanced 
small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;378:2078-2092. non-small cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2002;346:92-98.
3 Socinski M, Jotte R, Cappuzzo F, et al. Atezolizumab for first-line treatment of metastatic nonsquamous 20 Pujol JL, Breton JL, Gervais R, et al. Gemcitabine-docetaxel versus cisplatin-vinorelbine in advanced 
NSCLC. N Engl J Med 2018;378:2288-2301. or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase III study addressing the case for cisplatin. Ann Oncol 
4 West H, McCleod M, Hussein M, et al. West H, McCleod M, Hussein M, et al. Atezolizumab in 2005;16:602-610.
combination with carboplatin plus nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone as 21 Tan EH, Szczesna A, Krzakowski M, et al. Randomized study of vinorelbine--gemcitabine versus 
first-line treatment for metastatic non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (IMpower130): a multicentre, vinorelbine--carboplatin in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Lung Cancer 2005;49:233-
randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol. 2019;20:924-937 240.
5 Hellmann MD, Paz-Ares L, Bernabe Caro, R, et al. Nivolumab plus ipilimumab in advanced non-small-cell 22 Green M, Manikhas G, Orlov S, et al. Abraxane®, a novel Cremophor® -free, albumin-bound particle 
lung cancer. N Eng J Med 2019;381:2020-2031. form of paclitaxel for the treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Oncol 2006;17:1263-
6 Paz-Ares L, Ciuleanu TE, Cobo M, et al. First-line nivolumab plus ipilimumab combined with two cycles of 1268.
chemotherapy in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer (CheckMate 9LA): an international, randomised, 23 Rizvi N, Riely G, Azzoli C, et al. Phase I/II trial of weekly intravenous 130-nm albumin-bound paclitaxel 
open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2021;22:198-211. as initial chemotherapy in patients with atage IV non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:639-
7 Sandler A, Gray R, Perry MC, et al. Paclitaxel-carboplatin alone or with bevacizumab for non-small cell 643.
lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2006;355:2542-2550. 24 Socinski MA, Bondarenko I, Karaseva NA, et al. Weekly nab-paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin 
8 Patel JD, Socinski MA, Garon EB, et al. Pointbreak: a randomized phase III study of pemetrexed plus versus solvent-based paclitaxel plus carboplatin as first-line therapy in patients with advanced non-small 
carboplatin and bevacizumab followed by maintenance pemetrexed and bevacizumab versus paclitaxel cell lung cancer: final results of a phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2012:30:2055-2062.
plus carboplatin and bevacizumab followed by maintenance bevacizumab in patients with stage IIIB or IV 25 Fossella FV, DeVore R, Kerr RN, et al. Randomized phase III trial of docetaxel versus vinorelbine 
nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:4349-4357. or ifosfamide in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-
9 Barlesi F, Scherpereel A, Rittmeywr A, et al. Randomized phase III trial of maintenance bevacizumab with containing chemotherapy regimens. The TAX 320 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Study Group. J Clin Oncol 
or without pemetrexed after first-line induction with bevacizumab, cisplatin, and pemetrexed in advanced 2000;18:2354-2362.
nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer: AVAPERL. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3004-3011. 26 Fidias PM, Dakhil SR, Lyss AP, et al. Phase III study of immmediate compared with delayed docetaxel 
10 Socinski MA, Bondarenko I, Karaseva NA, et al. Weekly nab-paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin after front-line therapy with gemcitabine plus carboplatin in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J Clin 
versus solvent-based paclitaxel plus carboplatin as first-line therapy in patients with advanced non-small Oncol 2009;27:591-598.
cell lung cancer: final results of a phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2012:30:2055-2062. 27 Zatloukal P, Kanitz E, Magyar P, et al Gemcitabine in locally advanced and metastatic non-small cell lung 
11 Fossella F, Periera JR, von Pawel J, et al. Randomized, multinational, phase III study of docetaxel plus cancer: the Central European phase II study. Lung Cancer 1998;22:243-250.
platinum combinations versus vinorelbine plus cisplatin for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: the TAX 28 Sederholm C, Hillerdal G, Lamberg K, et al. Phase III trial of gemcitabine plus carboplatin versus single 
326 study group. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:3016-3024. agent gemcitabine in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer: the 
12 Klastersky J, Sculier JP, Lacroix H, et al. A randomized study comparing cisplatin or carboplatin with Swedish Lung Cancer Study group. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:8380-8288.
etoposide in patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer: European Organization for Research and 29 Perol M, Chouaid C, Perol D, et al. Randomized, phase III study of gemcitabine or erlotinib maintenance 
Treatment of Cancer Protocol 07861. J Clin Oncol 1990;8:1556-1562. therapy versus observation, with predefined second-line treatment, after cisplatin-gemcitabine induction 
13 Frasci G, Comella P, Panza N, eta l. Carboplatin-oral etoposide personalized dosing in elderly non-small chemotherapy in advanced non-small celll lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:3516-3524.
cell lung cancer patients. Gruppo Oncologico Cooperativo Sud-Italia. Eur J Cancer 1998;34:1710-1714. 30 Lilenbaum RC, Herndon JE, List MA, et al. Single-agent versus combination chemotherapy in advanced 
14 Danson S, Middleton MR, O’Byrne KJ, et al. Phase III trial of gemcitabine and carboplatin versus non-small cell lung cancer: the cancer and leukemia group B (study 9730). J Clin Oncol 2005;23:190-196.
mitomycin, ifosfamide, and cisplatin or mitomycin, vinblastine, and ciplatin in patients with advanced non- 31 Ceresoli GL, Gregorc V, Cordio S, et al. Phase II study of weekly paclitaxel as second-line therapy in 
small cell lung carcinoma. Cancer 2003;98:542-553. patients wit h advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Lung Cancer 2004;44:231-239.
15 Ohe Y, Ohashi Y, Kubota K, et al. Randomized phase III study of cisplatin plus irinotecan versus 32 Yasuda K, Igishi T, Kawasaki Y, et al. Phase II study of weekly paclitaxel in patients with non-small cell 
carboplatin plus paclitaxel, cisplatin plus gemcitabine, and cisplatin plus vinorelbine for advanced non- lung cancer who have failed previous treatments. Oncology 2004;66:347-352.
small-cell lung cancer: Four-Arm Cooperative Study in Japan. Ann Oncol 2007;18:317-323. 33 Hanna NH, Sheperd FA, Fossella FV, et al. Randomized phase III study of pemetrexed versus 
16 Scagliotti GV, Kortsik C, Dark GG, et al. Pemetrexed combined with oxaliplatin or carboplatin as first-line docetaxel in patients with non-small cell lung cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 
treatment in advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a multicenter, randomized, phase II trial. Clin Cancer 2004;22:1589-1597.
Res 2005;11:690-696. 34 Paz-Ares L. Luft A, Vincente D, et al. Pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy for squamous non-small-cell 
17 Cardenal F, Lopez-Cabrerizo MP, Anton A, et al. Randomized phase III study of gemcitabine-cisplatin lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2018;379:2040-2051.
versus etoposide-cisplatin in the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. J 
Clin Oncol 1999;17:12-18.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
NSCL-K
5 OF 5
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Table 1. Definitions for T, N, M
T Primary Tumor
TX Primary tumor cannot be assessed, or tumor proven by the presence of malignant cells in sputum or bronchial washings but not 
visualized by imaging or bronchoscopy
T0 No evidence of primary tumor
Tis Carcinoma in situ 
Squamous cell carcinoma in situ (SCIS)
Adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS): adenocarcinoma with pure lepidic pattern, ≤3 cm in greatest dimension
T1 Tumor ≤3 cm in greatest dimension, surrounded by lung or visceral pleura, without bronchoscopic evidence of invasion more 
proximal than the lobar bronchus (i.e., not in the main bronchus)
T1mi Minimally invasive adenocarcinoma: adenocarcinoma (≤3 cm in greatest dimension) with a predominantly lepidic pattern and ≤5 mm 
invasion in greatest dimension
T1a Tumor ≤1 cm in greatest dimension. A superficial, spreading tumor of any size whose invasive component is limited to the bronchial 
wall and may extend proximal to the main bronchus also is classified as T1a, but these tumors are uncommon.
T1b Tumor >1 cm but ≤2 cm in greatest dimension
T1c Tumor >2 cm but ≤3 cm in greatest dimension
T2 Tumor >3 cm but ≤5 cm or having any of the following features: (1) Involves the main bronchus, regardless of distance to the 
carina, but without involvement of the carina; (2) Invades visceral pleura (PL1 or PL2); (3) Associated with atelectasis or obstructive 
pneumonitis that extends to the hilar region, involving part or all of the lung
T2a Tumor >3 cm but ≤4 cm in greatest dimension
T2b Tumor >4 cm but ≤5 cm in greatest dimension
T3 Tumor >5 cm but ≤7 cm in greatest dimension or directly invading any of the following: parietal pleura (PL3), chest wall (including 
superior sulcus tumors), phrenic nerve, parietal pericardium; or separate tumor nodule(s) in the same lobe as the primary
T4 Tumor >7 cm or tumor of any size invading one or more of the following: diaphragm, mediastinum, heart, great vessels, trachea, 
recurrent laryngeal nerve, esophagus, vertebral body, carina; separate tumor nodule(s) in an ipsilateral lobe different from that of the 
primary
Used with permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago, Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition 
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing.
ST-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Table 1. Definitions for T, N, M (continued) Table 2. AJCC Prognostic Groups
N Regional Lymph Nodes T N M T N M
NX Regional lymph nodes cannot be assessed Occult TX N0 M0 Stage IIIB T1a N3 M0
N0 No regional lymph node metastasis Carcinoma T1b N3 M0
N1 Metastasis in ipsilateral peribronchial and/or ipsilateral Stage 0 Tis N0 M0 T1c N3 M0
hilar lymph nodes and intrapulmonary nodes, including Stage IA1 T1mi N0 M0
involvement by direct extension T2a N3 M0
T1a N0 M0
N2 Metastasis in ipsilateral mediastinal and/or subcarinal T2b N3 M0
lymph node(s) Stage IA2 T1b N0 M0 T3 N2 M0
N3 Metastasis in contralateral mediastinal, contralateral hilar, Stage IA3 T1c N0 M0 T4 N2 M0
ipsilateral or contralateral scalene, or supraclavicular lymph Stage IB T2a N0 M0
node(s) Stage IIIC T3 N3 M0
Stage IIA T2b N0 M0 T4 N3 M0
M Distant Metastasis Stage IIB T1a N1 M0 Stage IVA Any T Any N M1a
M0 No distant metastasis T1b N1 M0 Any T Any N M1b
M1 Distant metastasis T1c N1 M0 Stage IVB Any T Any N M1c
M1a Separate tumor nodule(s) in a contralateral lobe; tumor T2a N1 M0
with pleural or pericardial nodules or malignant pleural or T2b N1 M0
pericardial effusiona T3 N0 M0
M1b Single extrathoracic metastasis in a single organ (including Stage IIIA T1a N2 M0
involvement of a single nonregional node)
T1b N2 M0
M1c Multiple extrathoracic metastases in a single organ or in 
multiple organs T1c N2 M0
T2a N2 M0
T2b N2 M0
T3 N1 M0
T4 N0 M0
T4 N1 M0
a Most pleural (pericardial) effusions with lung cancer are a result of the tumor. In a few patients, however, multiple microscopic examinations of pleural (pericardial) fluid are negative for 
tumor, and the fluid is nonbloody and not an exudate. If these elements and clinical judgment dictate that the effusion is not related to the tumor, the effusion should be excluded as a 
staging descriptor.
Used with permission of the American College of Surgeons, Chicago, Illinois. The original source for this information is the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, Eighth Edition 
(2017) published by Springer International Publishing.
ST-2
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
Table 3. Comparison of the Descriptors in the Eighth Edition of the TNM Classification of Lung Cancer Compared with the Seventh Edition*,**
Descriptor 7th Edition T/N/M 8th Edition T/N/M
T component
0 cm (pure lepidic adenocarcinoma  
≤3 cm in total size) T1a if ≤2 cm; T1b if >2-3 cm Tis (AIS)
≤0.5 cm invasive size (lepidic predominant 
adenocarcinoma ≤3 cm total size) T1a if ≤2 cm; T1b if >2-3 cm T1mi
≤1 cm T1a T1a
>1-2 cm T1a T1b
>2-3 cm T1b T1c
>3-4 cm T2a T2a
>4-5 cm T2a T2b
>5-7 cm T2b T3
>7 cm T3 T4
Bronchus <2 cm from carina T3 T2
Total atelectasis/pneumonitis T3 T2
Invasion of diaphragm T3 T4
Invasion of mediastinal pleura T3 —
N component
No assessment, no involvement, or 
involvement of regional lymph nodes NX, N0, N1, N2, N3 No change
M component
Metastasis within the thoracic cavity M1a M1a
Single extrathoracic metastasis M1b M1b
Multiple extrathoracic metastasis M1b M1c
*Rami-Porta R, Asamura H, Travis WD, Rusch VW. Lung cancer - major changes in the American Joint Committee on Cancer eighth edition cancer staging manual. CA Cancer J Clin 2017;67:138-155.
**The staging of tumor size in the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 7th Edition is based on the total tumor size (invasive and lepidic/noninvasive); whereas, in the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual, 8th Edition, 
staging is based on invasive size only for non-mucinous adenocarcinoma. However, in mucinous adenocarcinoma, the total tumor size is used.
ST-3
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
NCCN Categories of Evidence and Consensus
Category 1 Based upon high-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2A Based upon lower-level evidence, there is uniform NCCN consensus that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 2B Based upon lower-level evidence, there is NCCN consensus that the intervention is appropriate.
Category 3 Based upon any level of evidence, there is major NCCN disagreement that the intervention is appropriate. 
All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
NCCN Categories of Preference
Preferred intervention Interventions that are based on superior efficacy, safety, and evidence; and, when appropriate, 
affordability.
Other recommended Other interventions that may be somewhat less efficacious, more toxic, or based on less mature data; 
intervention or significantly less affordable for similar outcomes.
Useful in certain 
circumstances Other interventions that may be used for selected patient populations (defined with recommendation).
All recommendations are considered appropriate.
CAT-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Discussion This discussion corresponds to the NCCN Guidelines for METex14 Skipping Mutations ........................................................................ MS-19 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Last updated on September 15, 
2020. RET Rearrangements .................................................................................... MS-19 
Table of Contents 
  KRAS Mutations ............................................................................................ MS-19 
Overview ................ ......................................................................... MS-3 Testing for Immune Biomarkers: PD-L1 Expression Levels ................................ MS-20 
Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update Methodology ............................ MS-3 Treatment Approaches ................................................................. MS-21 
Risk Factors ......................................................................................................... MS-4 Surgery .............................................................................................................. MS-21 
Smoking Cessation .............................................................................................. MS-4 Lymph Node Dissection ................................................................................. MS-21 
Lung Cancer Screening ........................................................................................ MS-5 Thorascopic Lobectomy ................................................................................. MS-22 
Classification and Prognostic Factors ................................................................... MS-5 Stage IIIA N2 Disease ................................................................................... MS-22 
Diagnostic Evaluation ...................................................................... MS-6 Radiation Therapy ............................................................................................. MS-23 
Incidental Lung Nodules ....................................................................................... MS-6 General Principles ......................................................................................... MS-23 
Larger Tumors ...................................................................................................... MS-7 Radiation Simulation, Planning, and Delivery ................................................. MS-24 
Pathologic Evaluation of Lung Cancer ............................................. MS-7 Target Volumes, Prescription Doses, and Normal Tissue Dose Constraints ... MS-24 
Adenocarcinoma .................................................................................................. MS-9 General Treatment Information ...................................................................... MS-25 
Immunohistochemical Staining ............................................................................. MS-9 Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy ................................................................ MS-27 
Staging.......................................................................................... MS-11 Whole Brain RT and Stereotactic Radiosurgery ............................................. MS-28 
Predictive and Prognostic Biomarkers............................................ MS-11 Combined Modality Therapy .............................................................................. MS-29 
Testing for Molecular Biomarkers ....................................................................... MS-14 Surgery Followed by Chemotherapy: Trial Data ............................................. MS-30 
EGFR Mutations ............................................................................................. MS-14 Preoperative Chemotherapy Followed by Surgery: Trial Data ........................ MS-31 
BRAF V600E Mutations.................................................................................. MS-16 Chemoradiation: Trial Data ............................................................................ MS-32 
ALK Gene Rearrangements ........................................................................... MS-17 Chemotherapy: Trial Data .............................................................................. MS-34 
ROS1 Rearrangements .................................................................................. MS-17 Targeted Therapies ....................................................................................... MS-36 
NTRK Gene Fusions ...................................................................................... MS-18 EGFR Inhibitor: Monoclonal Antibody ............................................................ MS-54 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-1 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors ........................................................................ MS-54 
Maintenance Therapy ..................................................................................... MS-65 
Clinical Evaluation ......................................................................... MS-67 
Additional Pretreatment Evaluation ..................................................................... MS-67 
Initial Therapy ............................................................................... MS-69 
Stage I, Stage II, and Stage IIIA Disease ............................................................ MS-69 
Multiple Lung Cancers ........................................................................................ MS-71 
Stage IIIB and IIIC NSCLC ................................................................................. MS-71 
Limited Metastatic Disease ................................................................................. MS-72 
Preoperative and Postoperative Treatment .................................... MS-73 
Chemotherapy or Chemoradiation ...................................................................... MS-73 
Radiation Therapy .............................................................................................. MS-75 
Surveillance .................................................................................. MS-75 
Treatment of Recurrences and Distant Metastases ........................ MS-76 
Trial Data ........................................................................................................... MS-80 
Number of Cycles of First-Line Systemic Therapy .............................................. MS-81 
Maintenance Therapy ......................................................................................... MS-81 
Continuation of Targeted Therapy After Progression on Initial Therapy .............. MS-82 
Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) Systemic Therapy................................. MS-83 
Summary....................................................................................... MS-87 
References .................................................................................... MS-89 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-2 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Overview members using the following categories: 1) preferred interventions; 2) 
Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death in the United States.1 In other recommended interventions; and 3) interventions that are useful in 
certain circumstances (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).22
2020, an estimated 228,820 new cases (116,300 in men and 112,520 in  These 
women) of lung and bronchial cancer will be diagnosed, and 135,720 new preference categories are intended to emphasize the preferred 
deaths (72,500 in men and 63,220 in women) are estimated to occur regimens in clinical practice and are not intended to replace the NCCN 
because of the disease.2 Only 19% of all patients with lung cancer are categories of evidence and consensus, such as category 1 or category 2A.  
alive 5 years or more after diagnosis, which includes patients with both 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC).3
The NCCN Guidelines also provide specific category designations for all 
 treatment interventions in the guidelines, which are based on evidence 
From 2009 to 2015, the overall 5-year relative survival rate for NSCLC from the biomedical literature and consensus among the panel members. 
was 25% in the United States.3 However, much progress has been made Category 1 recommendations indicate uniform NCCN consensus (at least 
recently for lung cancer such as screening, minimally invasive techniques 85% of the panel vote) that the intervention is appropriate based on 
for diagnosis and treatment, and advances in radiation therapy (RT) high-level evidence, such as randomized phase 3 trials. Category 2A 
including stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR), targeted therapies, recommendations indicate uniform NCCN consensus that the intervention 
and immunotherapies.4-9 Patients with metastatic lung cancer who are is appropriate based on lower level evidence, such as phase 2 trials. It is 
eligible for targeted therapies or immunotherapies are now surviving important to note that all recommendations are category 2A in the NCCN 
longer; 5-year survival rates range from 15% to 50%, depending on the Guidelines unless otherwise indicated. Category 2B recommendations 
biomarker.9-19 Thus, death rates for lung cancer have been declining, indicate NCCN consensus (50% to <85% of the panel vote) that the 
although there are still more deaths from lung cancer than from breast, 
prostate, colorectal, and brain cancers combined together.2
intervention is appropriate based on lower level evidence. Category 3 
 Common recommendations indicate major NCCN disagreement (at least 50% of the 
symptoms of lung cancer include cough, hemoptysis, dyspnea, weight panel vote) that the intervention is appropriate based on any level of 
loss, and chest pain; patients with symptoms are more likely to have 
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).20 evidence. For a category 3 recommendation to remain in the guideline, at 
  
least 25% of the panel must vote that the intervention is appropriate. By 
These NCCN Guidelines® for NSCLC were first published in 1996.21 definition, the NCCN Guidelines cannot incorporate all possible clinical 
Subsequently, the NCCN Guidelines® have been updated at least once a variations and are not intended to replace good clinical judgment or 
year by the NCCN NSCLC Panel; there were 8 updates for the 2020 individualization of treatments.  
guidelines. The Summary of the Guidelines Updates describes the most 
recent revisions to the algorithms, which have been incorporated into this Literature Search Criteria and Guidelines Update Methodology 
updated Discussion text (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC and An electronic search of the PubMed database was performed to obtain 
Summary in this Discussion). For example, the NCCN NSCLC Panel has key literature in NSCLC using the following search term: non-small cell 
preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens for the 2020 update lung cancer. The PubMed database was chosen because it is the most 
(Version 1) based on the biomedical literature and experience of the panel widely used resource for medical literature and indexes peer-reviewed 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-3 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
biomedical literature. The search results were narrowed by selecting arsenic, chromium, asbestos, nickel, cadmium, beryllium, silica, and diesel 
studies in humans published in English. Results were confined to the fumes.34-36 Asbestos is a known carcinogen that increases the risk for lung 
following article types: Clinical Trial, Phase 2; Clinical Trial, Phase 3; cancer in people exposed to airborne fibers, especially in individuals who 
Clinical Trial, Phase 4; Guideline; Meta-Analysis; Randomized Controlled smoke. It is estimated that about 3% to 4% of lung cancers are caused by 
Trial; Systematic Reviews; and Validation Studies.  asbestos exposure.37 Asbestos also causes malignant pleural 
mesothelioma (see the NCCN Guidelines for Malignant Pleural 
The data from key PubMed articles selected by the NCCN NSCLC Panel Mesothelioma, available at www.NCCN.org). Radon gas, a radioactive gas 
for review during the NCCN Guidelines update meeting, as well as articles that is produced by the decay of radium 226, also seems to cause lung 
from additional sources deemed as relevant to these Guidelines and cancer. 
discussed by the panel, have been included in this version of the 
Discussion section (eg, e-publications ahead of print, meeting abstracts). If It is not clear whether hormone replacement therapy (HRT) affects the risk 
high-level evidence is lacking, recommendations are based on the panel’s for lung cancer in women. More than 20 studies have been published, but 
review of lower-level evidence and expert opinion. The complete details of the results have been inconsistent. In a large randomized controlled study, 
the development and update of the NCCN Guidelines are available at no increase in the incidence of lung cancer was found among 
www.NCCN.org.  postmenopausal women treated with estrogen plus progestin HRT; 
however, the risk of death increased in those with NSCLC.38 In women 
Risk Factors who received estrogen alone, the incidence or risk of death from lung 
The primary risk factor for lung cancer is smoking tobacco, which accounts cancer did not increase.39  
for most lung cancer-related deaths.1,23-27 Cigarette smoke contains many 
carcinogenic chemicals (eg, nitrosamines, benzo(a)pyrene diol Smoking Cessation 
epoxide).26,28 The risk for lung cancer increases with the number of packs Approximately 85% to 90% of cases of lung cancer are caused by 
of cigarettes smoked per day and with the number of years spent smoking cigarette smoking.25 Active smoking causes lung cancer; former smokers 
(ie, pack-years of smoking history). Exposed nonsmokers also have an are at increased risk for lung cancer compared with never smokers. There 
increased relative risk (RR = 1.24) of developing lung cancer from is a causal relationship between active smoking and lung cancer and also 
secondhand smoke; other studies have reported a modest risk (hazard between other cancers (eg, esophageal, oral cavity, laryngeal, pharyngeal, 
ratio [HR], 1.05).24,28-31  bladder, pancreatic, gastric, kidney, ovarian cancer, colorectal, and 
cervical cancers) and other diseases and conditions.25 Smoking harms 
Other possible risk factors for lung cancer include disease history (eg, nearly every organ in the body; smokers have increased mortality 
COPD), cancer history, family history of lung cancer, and exposure to compared with nonsmokers.40 Those who live with someone who smokes 
other carcinogens (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening, have an increased risk for lung cancer.29 Further complicating this 
available at www.NCCN.org).32,33 The International Agency for Research problem, cigarettes also contain nicotine, which is a highly addictive 
on Cancer lists several agents known to cause lung cancer, including substance. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-4 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Oncologists should encourage smoking cessation, especially in patients Lung Cancer Screening 
with cancer (see the NCCN Guidelines for Smoking Cessation, available Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death worldwide in men, and 
at www.NCCN.org).41-44 The 5 A’s framework is a useful tool (that is, Ask, late diagnosis is a major obstacle to improving lung cancer outcomes.1,63,64 
Advise, Assess, Assist, Arrange).45 It is in the best interest of patients to Because localized cancer can be managed with curative intent and 
quit smoking. Persistent smoking is associated with second primary because the mortality rate in other solid tumors (eg, cervix, colon) seems 
cancers, treatment complications, and decreased survival.46 Some to be decreased by screening and early detection, lung cancer is an 
surgeons will not operate on a current smoker, because active smoking appropriate candidate for a population-based screening approach.  
may increase postoperative pulmonary complications.47 However, active 
smoking should not be used to exclude patients with early-stage lung The National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) (ACRIN Protocol A6654) was a 
cancer from surgical treatment that will prolong survival. Programs using randomized controlled study involving more than 53,000 current or former 
behavioral counseling combined with medications that promote smoking heavy smokers that assessed the risks and benefits of low-dose CT scans 
cessation (approved by the FDA) can be very useful.48 The American compared with chest radiographs for detecting lung cancer.65 Data from 
Cancer Society (ACS) has a Guide to Quitting Smoking. the NLST showed that screening individuals with high-risk factors using 
low-dose CT decreased the mortality rate from lung cancer by 20%.66 
Agents that can be used to promote smoking cessation include nicotine Individuals with high-risk factors were either current or former smokers 
replacement (eg, gum, inhaler, lozenge, nasal spray, patch), bupropion with a 30 or more pack-year smoking history (former smokers had quit up 
sustained release, and varenicline.49,50 A study suggests that cytisine is to 15 years before enrollment), were 55 to 74 years of age, and had no 
more efficacious than nicotine replacement therapy, although more side evidence of lung cancer.65,67 The NCCN, ACS, U.S. Preventive Services 
effects were reported with cytisine such as nausea, vomiting, and sleep Task Force (USPSTF), American College of Chest Physicians, European 
disorders.51 Studies have shown that varenicline is better than bupropion Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO), and other organizations 
or nicotine patch for smoking cessation.52-54 The effectiveness of recommend lung cancer screening using low-dose CT for select high-risk 
varenicline for preventing relapse has not been clearly established.55 The current and former smokers (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer 
FDA has issued an alert for varenicline regarding neuropsychiatric Screening, available at www.NCCN.org).68-71 Low-dose CT screening and 
symptoms. Varenicline has also been associated with visual disturbances, follow-up are not a substitute for smoking cessation; patients should be 
movement disorders, unconsciousness, and cardiovascular disorders; offered smoking cessation counseling (see NCCN Guidelines for Smoking 
therefore, it is banned in truck and bus drivers, pilots, and air traffic Cessation, available at www.NCCN.org).  
controllers.56-59 Other side effects with varenicline include nausea, 
abnormal dreams, insomnia, and headache.54,60,61 Bupropion may also be Classification and Prognostic Factors  
associated with similar serious neuropsychiatric symptoms. Nicotine WHO divides lung cancer into 2 major classes based on its biology, 
replacement has fewer adverse effects than varenicline or bupropion.62 In therapy, and prognosis: NSCLC (discussed in these guidelines) and SCLC 
spite of the potential adverse effects, it is probably more beneficial for (see the NCCN Guidelines for Small Cell Lung Cancer, available at 
motivated patients to use agents to promote smoking cessation.62  www.NCCN.org).72,73 NSCLC accounts for more than 80% of all lung 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-5 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
cancer cases, and it includes 2 major types: 1) nonsquamous (including The diagnostic algorithm for pulmonary nodules in the NCCN Guidelines 
adenocarcinoma, large-cell carcinoma, and other subtypes); and 2) for NSCLC incorporates information from the NCCN Guidelines for Lung 
squamous cell (epidermoid) carcinoma.3 Adenocarcinoma is the most Cancer Screening. Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel revised the 
common subtype of lung cancer seen in the United States and is also the diagnostic algorithms for incidental solid and subsolid lung nodules 
most frequently occurring histology in nonsmokers. In 2011, an detected on chest CT based on the updated Fleischner criteria (see the 
international panel revised the classification of lung adenocarcinoma (see NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).79-83 The cutoff thresholds were increased to 
the Pathologic Evaluation of Lung Cancer in this Discussion), which has 6 mm for a positive scan result. Note that the Fleischner Society 
been adopted by WHO.72-74 All NSCLC should be classified according to Guidelines do not specify whether a CT with contrast is necessary for 
subtype using the WHO Guidelines.73 Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel follow-up or whether a low-dose CT is sufficient. Low-dose CT is preferred 
extensively revised the pathology section (see Principles of Pathologic unless contrast enhancement is needed for better diagnostic resolution.  
Review in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC and Pathologic Evaluation of 
Lung Cancer in this Discussion). Some of the recent changes include the Solid and subsolid nodules are the 2 main types of pulmonary nodules that 
addition of information about adenosquamous carcinomas, large cell may be seen on chest CT scans. The Fleischner Society has 
carcinomas, and carcinoid tumors. Certain prognostic factors are recommendations for patients with solid and subsolid nodules.80,81 
predictive of survival in patients with NSCLC. Good prognostic factors Subsolid nodules include: 1) nonsolid nodules also known as ground-glass 
include early-stage disease at diagnosis, good performance status (PS) opacities (GGOs) or ground-glass nodules (GGNs); and 2) part-solid 
(ECOG 0, 1), no significant weight loss (<5%), and female gender.75  nodules, which contain both ground-glass and solid components.81,84-86 
Nonsolid nodules are mainly adenocarcinoma in situ (AIS) or minimally 
Diagnostic Evaluation  invasive adenocarcinoma (MIA), formerly known as bronchioloalveolar 
Incidental Lung Nodules  carcinoma (BAC) (see Adenocarcinoma in this Discussion); patients have 
5-year disease-free survival of 100% if these nonsolid nodules are 
Lung cancer screening is recommended for early diagnosis in completely resected.74,81,84,85,87-89 Data suggest that many nonsolid nodules 
asymptomatic patients at high risk. Risk assessment is used to determine discovered incidentally on CT imaging will resolve and many of those that 
which individuals are at high risk for lung cancer and thus are candidates persist may not progress to clinically significant cancer.87,90,91 Solid and 
for screening with low-dose CT.76 Clinicians are referred to the NCCN part-solid nodules are more likely to be invasive, faster-growing cancers, 
Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening for risk assessment criteria to factors that are reflected in the increased suspicion and follow-up of these 
determine which patients are eligible for screening and for how to evaluate nodules (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening, available 
and follow up on low-dose CT screening findings.77 The NCCN Guidelines at www.NCCN.org).77,80,81  
for Lung Cancer Screening have been revised to harmonize with the 
LungRADs system developed by the American College of Radiology with All findings and factors for a patient need to be carefully evaluated in a 
the goal of decreasing the false-positive low-dose CT screening results multidisciplinary diagnostic team before establishing a diagnosis of lung 
reported in the NLST.78  cancer and before starting treatment. The NCCN Guidelines recommend 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-6 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
biopsy or surgical excision for highly suspicious nodules seen on low-dose PET/CT imaging is useful before selecting a biopsy site, because it is 
CT scans or further surveillance for nodules with a low suspicion of cancer better to biopsy the site that will confer the highest stage. For patients with 
depending on the type of nodule and a multidisciplinary evaluation of other suspected nodal disease, pathologic mediastinal lymph node evaluation is 
patient factors (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening, recommended with either noninvasive or invasive staging methods, 
available at www.NCCN.org). For patients having repeat scans, the most including endoscopic ultrasound–guided fine-needle aspiration 
important radiologic factor is change or stability of a nodule when (EUS-FNA), EBUS–guided transbronchial needle aspiration 
compared with a previous imaging study. False-positive results (eg, (EBUS-TBNA), navigational bronchoscopy, or mediastinoscopy (see in 
benign intrapulmonary lymph nodes, noncalcified granulomas) frequently this Discussion and Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation in the NCCN 
occurred with low-dose CT when using the original cutoffs for nodule size Guidelines for NSCLC). Clinicians use both noninvasive and invasive 
deemed suspicious for malignancy from the NLST.66 The revised cutoff methods when staging patients.96 EBUS provides access to nodal stations 
values for suspicious nodules recommended by the American College of 2R/2L, 4R/4L, 7, 10R/10L, and other hilar nodal stations. EUS provides 
Radiology and incorporated into the LungRADs system have been access to nodal stations 5, 7, 8, and 9. 
reported to decrease the false-positive rate from low-dose CT.92-94  
If pathology results from biopsy or surgical excision indicate a diagnosis of 
Larger Tumors NSCLC, then further evaluation and staging need to be done so that the 
The NCCN Guidelines recommend that the diagnostic strategy should be patient’s health care team can determine the most appropriate and 
individualized for each patient depending on the size and location of the effective treatment plan (see Pathologic Evaluation of Lung Cancer, 
tumor, the presence of mediastinal or distant disease, patient Staging, and Clinical Evaluation in this Discussion and the NCCN 
characteristics (eg, comorbidities), and local expertise. The diagnostic Guidelines for NSCLC). Diagnosis, staging, and planned resection (eg, 
strategy needs to be decided in a multidisciplinary setting. Decisions lobectomy) are ideally one operative procedure for patients with 
regarding whether a biopsy (including what type of biopsy) or surgical early-stage disease (see the Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation in the 
excision is appropriate depend on several factors as outlined in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). A preoperative or intraoperative tissue 
NSCLC algorithm (see Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation in the NCCN diagnosis of lung cancer should be established before doing a lobectomy.  
Guidelines for NSCLC). For example, a preoperative biopsy may be 
appropriate if an intraoperative diagnosis seems to be difficult or very risky Pathologic Evaluation of Lung Cancer  
(such as a small and central lesion, where it is difficult to wedge or do Pathologic evaluation is performed to classify the histologic subtype of the 
intraoperative core needle biopsy). The preferred biopsy technique lung cancer, determine the extent of invasion, determine whether it is 
depends on the disease site and is described in the NSCLC algorithm (see primary lung cancer or metastatic cancer, establish the cancer 
Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation). For example, radial endobronchial involvement status of the surgical margins (ie, positive or negative 
ultrasound (EBUS; also known as endosonography), navigational margins), and do molecular diagnostic studies to determine whether 
bronchoscopy, or transthoracic needle aspiration (TTNA) are certain gene variants are present (eg, epidermal growth factor receptor 
recommended for patients with suspected peripheral nodules.95  [EGFR] mutations) (see Principles of Pathologic Review in the NCCN 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-7 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Guidelines for NSCLC).97 Data show that targeted therapy is potentially because more effective treatment can be selected when the histology is 
very effective in patients with specific gene variants such as EGFR known.  
mutations or ALK fusions; therefore, tissue needs to be conserved for 
molecular testing (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel extensively revised the pathology 
the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).7,98-107  section in the algorithm, including new information about 
adenosquamous carcinomas, large cell carcinomas, and carcinoid 
Preoperative evaluations include examination of the following: bronchial tumors (see Principles of Pathologic Review in the NCCN Guidelines for 
brushings, bronchial washings, sputum, FNA biopsy, core needle biopsy, NSCLC). The purpose of the pathologic evaluation of NSCLC varies 
endobronchial biopsy, and transbronchial biopsy.95,108 Minimally invasive depending on whether the sample is 1) intended for initial diagnosis in a 
techniques can be used to obtain specimens in patients with advanced case of suspected NSCLC; 2) a definitive resection sample; or 3) 
unresectable NSCLC;109,110 however, diagnosis may be more difficult when obtained for molecular evaluation in the setting of an established NSCLC 
using small biopsies and cytology.88 Rapid on-site evaluation (ROSE) may diagnosis. Further details are provided in the algorithm. All NSCLC 
be used to ensure transbronchial needle aspirates or EBUS specimens should be classified according to subtype using the WHO Guidelines.73 
are adequate for molecular testing.111,112 The mediastinal lymph nodes are Major subtypes of NSCLC include adenocarcinoma, squamous cell 
systematically sampled to determine the staging and therapeutic options. carcinoma, adenosquamous carcinoma, large cell carcinoma, carcinoid 
Other lung diseases also need to be ruled out (eg, tuberculosis, tumor, and less common subtypes that are not discussed here. Ideally, 
sarcoidosis, coccidioidomycosis).113-115 Lobectomy or pneumonectomy the subtype should be specified. The general terms NSCC or NSCC 
specimens are evaluated intraoperatively to determine the surgical NOS should be used infrequently and only when a more specific 
resection margin status, diagnose incidental nodules discovered at the diagnosis cannot be obtained by morphology and/or special staining.  
time of surgery, or evaluate the regional lymph nodes.  
Adenocarcinomas include AIS, MIA, invasive adenocarcinomas, and 
Postoperative evaluation provides the pathology characteristics necessary invasive adenocarcinoma variants (see Adenocarcinoma in this 
for the classification of tumor type, staging, and prognostic factors. The Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Squamous cell 
surgical pathology report should include the WHO histologic classification carcinoma is a malignant epithelial tumor that 1) shows either 
for carcinomas of the lung.72,73,116 In 2011, the classification for lung keratinization and/or intercellular bridges; or 2) is an undifferentiated 
adenocarcinoma was revised by an international panel, which has been NSCC that demonstrates positivity for squamous cell carcinoma markers 
adopted by the WHO (see Adenocarcinoma in this Discussion).72-74 The by IHC. Adenosquamous carcinomas are tumors with mixed 
revised classification recommends immunohistochemical (IHC) and adenocarcinoma and squamous cell carcinoma components; each 
molecular studies (see Principles of Pathologic Review in the NCCN component comprises at least 10% of the tumor. The presence of any 
Guidelines for NSCLC).117 In addition, the revised classification adenocarcinoma component in a biopsy specimen that is otherwise 
recommends that use of general categories (eg, non-small cell carcinoma squamous should trigger molecular testing. Large cell carcinomas are 
[NSCC], NSCC not otherwise specified [NOS]) should be minimized, tumors lacking morphologic or IHC evidence of clear lineage, with 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-8 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
negative or uninformative stains for squamous cell carcinoma and used for small samples because of challenges with complete assessment 
adenocarcinoma. The diagnosis of large cell carcinoma requires a of the lesion.74  
thoroughly sampled resected tumor and cannot be made on 
non-resected or cytology specimens. Staining for large cell carcinomas The international panel and the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommend that all 
should include mucin stain to look for occult glandular differentiation. patients with adenocarcinoma be tested for EGFR mutations; the NCCN 
Although carcinoid tumors are not treated like other types of NSCLC, NSCLC Panel also recommends that patients receive routine biomarker 
they are staged in the same manner and are part of the differential testing for anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene rearrangements (also 
diagnosis of pulmonary lesions (see the NCCN Guidelines for known as ALK fusions), ROS1 rearrangements (also known as ROS1 
Neuroendocrine and Adrenal Tumors, available at www.NCCN.org). Care fusions), BRAF mutations, c-mesenchymal-epithelial transition factor 
should be taken to properly distinguish typical carcinoid from atypical (c-MET) exon 14 (METex14) skipping mutations, rearranged during 
carcinoid by assessing for necrosis and using a morphologic mitotic transfection (RET) rearrangements, and programmed death ligand 1 
count.  (PD-L1) expression levels, because FDA-approved agents for lung cancer 
are available for these biomarkers. Testing for other genetic variants may 
Adenocarcinoma  also be done—such as neurotrophin tyrosine receptor kinase (NTRK) 
As previously mentioned, most lung carcinomas are adenocarcinomas. In gene fusions, MET amplification, and ERBB2 (also known as HER2) 
2011, the classification for lung adenocarcinoma was revised by an mutations—to identify these rare oncogenic driver variants for which 
international panel and adopted by WHO.72-74 The revised classification effective therapy may be available, although there is less evidence to 
recommends that use of general categories—NSCC and NSCC NOS— support testing (see Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for 
should be minimized, because more effective treatment can be selected Patients with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for 
when the specific subtype is known; IHC and molecular studies are also NSCLC).118-120 The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends PD-L1 IHC 
recommended (see Principles of Pathologic Review in the NCCN testing (category 1) in patients with metastatic NSCLC based on phase 3 
randomized trial data.121
Guidelines for NSCLC).117    
The categories of BAC or mixed subtype adenocarcinoma are no longer Immunohistochemical Staining  
used to classify adenocarcinoma.74 The categories for adenocarcinoma Judicious use of IHC in small tissue samples to determine a diagnosis of 
include: 1) AIS, which is a preinvasive, typically solitary lesion that is NSCLC is strongly recommended to conserve tumor tissue for molecular 
usually non-mucinous; 2) MIA, which is a solitary and discrete studies, especially in patients with advanced disease (see Principles of 
non-mucinous lesion with a maximum area of invasion no greater than 0.5 Pathologic Review in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).110,122,123 Note that 
cm; and 3) invasive adenocarcinoma (see the NCCN Guidelines for IHC analyses used to identify tumor type and lineage (eg, 
NSCLC). Both AIS and MIA are associated with excellent survival if they adenocarcinoma vs. squamous cell carcinoma) are distinct from IHC 
are resected. The terms AIS, MIA, and large cell carcinoma should not be analyses used to determine whether patients are candidates for ALK 
inhibitor therapy or PD-L1 inhibitor therapy. Before using IHC to determine 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-9 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
histologic subtype, all material should be assessed morphologically, thyroid cancer, while they are negative in lung cancer tumors. 
including routine staining approaches such as hematoxylin and eosin Immunomarkers that may be useful to assess for metastatic carcinoma to 
(H&E) histology (or relevant stains for cytology specimens), clinical the lung include breast carcinoma (ERα, PR, GCDFP-15, mammaglobin, 
findings, imaging studies, and the patient’s history. Cytology may be GATA-3), renal cell carcinoma (PAX8), papillary serous carcinoma (PAX8, 
sufficient to distinguish adenocarcinomas from squamous cell PAX2, ER), and adenocarcinomas of the gastrointestinal tract (CDX2) or 
carcinomas.124 If necessary, IHC should be used to distinguish prostate gland (NKX3.1). All typical and atypical carcinoid tumors are 
adenocarcinoma, squamous cell carcinoma, metastatic malignancy, and positive for chromogranin and synaptophysin, whereas SCLC is negative 
primary pleural mesothelioma (particularly for pleural samplings).122 IHC is in 25% of cases.  
useful for poorly differentiated NSCLC in small biopsy and/or cytology 
Malignant pleural mesothelioma is a rare disease.129,130
specimens.74,125 Squamous cell carcinomas are often TTF-1 negative and  The NCCN 
p40 (or alternatively p63) positive, whereas adenocarcinomas are usually NSCLC Panel feels that malignant mesothelioma and lung 
TTF-1 positive.74 These 2 markers may be sufficient to distinguish adenocarcinoma can be distinguished using clinical impression, imaging, 
adenocarcinomas from squamous cell carcinomas.74,125 Other markers and a limited panel of immunomarkers (if needed) to preserve tissue for 
(eg, p40, Napsin A) may also be useful in distinguishing adenocarcinoma molecular testing. Commonly used immunostains sensitive and specific 
from squamous cell carcinoma.126,127 Napsin A positivity occurs in more for adenocarcinoma include pCEA, Claudin-4, TTF-1, and Napsin A 
than 80% of lung adenocarcinomas. In small biopsy specimens previously (negative in mesothelioma). Other potentially useful markers include 
classified as NSCC NOS, a panel of TTF-1 (or alternatively Napsin A) and B72.3, Ber-EP4, MOC31, and CD15; however, these markers generally 
p40 (or alternatively p63) may be sufficient to refine the diagnosis to either do not have the sensitivity and specificity of the commonly used markers. 
adenocarcinoma or squamous cell carcinoma. Note that p63 can co-stain Immunostains sensitive and specific for mesothelioma include WT-1, 
with TTF-1 or Napsin A in adenocarcinoma.  calretinin, cytokeratin 5/6, and D2-40 (podoplanin antibody) (negative in 
adenocarcinoma).129-131 Broad epithelial markers such as keratin(s), as 
An appropriate panel of IHC stains should include those relevant for well as other lineage-specific markers, should be used when the 
evaluation of metastatic carcinomas to the lung if the primary origin of the differential diagnosis includes non-pulmonary and non-mesothelial 
carcinoma is uncertain. It is appropriate to first perform a limited panel of lesions. Other markers can be useful in the differential diagnosis 
IHC to evaluate for NSCLC and, if negative, then proceed to additional between mesothelioma and metastatic carcinoma to the lung (see 
IHC for evaluation of possible metastasis from a distant site. TTF-1 is very Principles of Pathologic Review in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). 
important for distinguishing primary lung adenocarcinoma from metastatic 
adenocarcinoma, because most (70%–90%) non-mucinous primary Although the cytologic diagnosis of NSCLC is generally reliable, it is more 
adenocarcinomas are TTF-1 positive. TTF-1 is typically negative in difficult to diagnose SCLC (see the NCCN Guidelines for Small Cell Lung 
Cancer, available at www.NCCN.org).95,125,132
squamous cell carcinoma.125 However, TTF-1 is also positive in tumors  Many patients with SCLC 
such as thyroid cancer and rarely in a few other organ systems.128 In have characteristic CT and clinical findings (eg, massive 
addition, thyroglobulin and PAX8 are positive in tumors from patients with lymphadenopathy, mediastinal invasion). Most SCLCs are immunoreactive 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-10 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
for TTF-1; they are typically negative for CK34βE12 and p63.133,134 Many 19% were diagnosed while the cancer was still confined to the primary 
SCLCs also stain positively for markers of neuroendocrine differentiation, site; 24% were diagnosed after the cancer had spread to regional lymph 
including chromogranin and synaptophysin. IHC should be used to confirm nodes or directly beyond the primary site; 55% were diagnosed after the 
neuroendocrine differentiation only when appropriate morphologic cancer had already metastasized; and for the remaining 2% the staging 
features—speckled chromatin pattern, nuclear molding, and peripheral information was unknown. The corresponding 5-year relative survival rates 
palisading—are present. NCAM (CD56), chromogranin, and were 61.4% for localized, 34.5% for regional, 6.1% for distant, and 14.6% 
synaptophysin are used to identify neuroendocrine tumors if morphologic for unstaged.3  
suspicion of neuroendocrine differentiation exists. One positive marker is 
sufficient if the staining is not ambiguous in more than 10% of the tumor Five-year survival after lobectomy for pathologic stage I NSCLC ranges 
cells.  from 45% to 65%, depending on whether the patient has stage 1A or 1B 
disease and on the location of the tumor.145 Another study in patients with 
Staging  stage I disease (n = 19,702) found that 82% had surgical resection and 
A revised edition of the AJCC Cancer Staging Manual (8th edition) was their 5-year overall survival was 54%; for untreated stage I NSCLC, 5-year 
published in late 2016 and is effective for all cancer cases recorded on or overall survival was only 6%.146 Of patients with stage I disease who 
after January 1, 2018.135,136 The lung cancer staging system was revised refused surgery (although it was recommended), 78% died of lung cancer 
by the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer within 5 years.  
(IASLC)137-139 and was adopted by the AJCC.135,136,140,141 The definitions Predictive and Prognostic Biomarkers 
for TNM and the stage grouping for the eighth edition are summarized in 
Tables 1 and 2 of the staging tables (see Definitions for T,N,M and Several biomarkers have emerged as predictive and prognostic markers 
Staging in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). The descriptors of the TNM for NSCLC. A predictive biomarker is indicative of therapeutic efficacy, 
classification scheme are summarized in Table 3 of the staging tables, because there is an interaction between the biomarker and therapy on 
which shows the differences between the seventh and eighth editions (see patient outcome. A prognostic biomarker is indicative of patient survival 
Staging).142 Early-stage disease is stages I and II with negative nodes independent of the treatment received, because the biomarker is an 
(N0), whereas locally advanced disease is stages II and III with positive indicator of the innate tumor behavior (see KRAS Mutations at the end of 
nodes (N+);143 advanced or metastatic disease is stage IV. Pathologic this section). The NSCLC Panel recommends testing for certain molecular 
staging uses both clinical staging information (which is noninvasive and and immune biomarkers in all appropriate patients with metastatic NSCLC 
includes medical history, physical examination, and imaging) and other to assess whether patients are eligible for targeted therapies or 
invasive staging procedures (eg, thoracotomy, examination of lymph immunotherapies based on data showing improvement in overall survival 
nodes using mediastinoscopy).144  for patients receiving targeted therapies or immunotherapies compared 
with traditional chemotherapy regimens.10-17  
From 2009 to 2015, the overall 5-year relative survival rate for NSCLC 
was 25% in the United States.3 Of NSCLC and bronchial cancer cases, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-11 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Predictive biomarkers include the ALK fusion oncogene (fusion between nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC NOS so that patients with these genetic 
ALK and other genes [eg, echinoderm microtubule-associated protein-like variants can receive effective treatment with targeted agents (see 
4]), ROS1 gene fusions, sensitizing EGFR gene mutations, BRAF V600E Targeted Therapies in this Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for 
point mutations, NTRK gene fusions, METex14 skipping mutations, RET NSCLC).156-160 Testing for ROS1 fusions and BRAF mutations (both are 
rearrangements, and PD-L1 expression (see Principles of Molecular and category 2A) is also recommended in the NCCN Guidelines for 
Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Emerging nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC NOS. Although rare, patients with ALK 
predictive biomarkers include ERBB2 mutations, high-level MET fusions or EGFR mutations can have mixed squamous cell histology.161,162 
amplifications, and tumor mutational burden (TMB) (see Emerging Therefore, testing for ALK fusions and EGFR mutations can be considered 
Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for Patients with Metastatic in select patients with metastatic squamous cell carcinoma if they are 
NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). The presence of EGFR exon never smokers, small biopsy specimens were used for testing, or mixed 
19 deletions or exon 21 L858R mutations is predictive of treatment benefit histology was reported. Data suggest that EGFR mutations occur in 
from EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (EGFR TKI) therapy (eg, osimertinib); patients with adenosquamous carcinoma at a rate similar to 
therefore, these mutations are referred to as sensitizing EGFR mutations adenocarcinoma, which is harder to discriminate from squamous cell 
(see EGFR Mutations in this Discussion).147,148 The presence of EGFR carcinoma in small specimens.161 Thus, testing for EGFR mutations and 
exon 19 deletions (LREA) or exon 21 L858R mutations does not appear to ALK fusions is recommended in mixed squamous cell lung specimens that 
be prognostic of survival for patients with NSCLC, independent of contain an adenocarcinoma component, such as adenosquamous NSCLC 
therapy.149  or in samples in which an adenocarcinoma component cannot be 
excluded.160 The incidence of EGFR mutations is very low in patients with 
ALK fusion oncogenes (ie, ALK gene fusions) and ROS1 fusions are pure squamous cell histology (<4%).163 Testing for ROS1 fusions or BRAF 
predictive biomarkers that have been identified in a small subset of mutations is also recommended (category 2A) in patients with squamous 
patients with NSCLC; both predict for benefit from targeted therapy such cell carcinoma who have small biopsy specimens or mixed histology.  
as crizotinib or ceritinib (see ALK Gene Rearrangements and ROS1 
Rearrangements in this Discussion and Principles of Molecular and For patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC, the NCCN NSCLC 
Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Other gene Panel currently recommends that a minimum of the following biomarkers 
fusions have recently been identified, such as ERBB2 (HER2) mutations should be tested, including EGFR mutations, BRAF mutations, ALK 
that are susceptible to targeted therapies, particularly therapies currently fusions, ROS1 fusions, METex14 skipping mutations, RET 
under investigation in clinical trials (see Emerging Biomarkers to Identify rearrangements, and PD-L1 expression levels. This list of recommended 
Novel Therapies for Patients with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN biomarkers may be revised as new oncogenic driver variants are identified 
Guidelines for NSCLC).150-155  and new agents are approved. Patients with NSCLC may have other 
genetic variants (see Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for 
Testing for ALK gene fusions and EGFR gene mutations is recommended Patients with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for 
(category 1 for both) in the NSCLC algorithm for patients with metastatic NSCLC).102,164,165 The NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC provide 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-12 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
recommendations for individual biomarkers that should be tested and online resources are available that describe NSCLC driver events such as 
recommend testing techniques but do not endorse any specific My Cancer Genome.  
commercially available biomarker assays.166 Biomarker testing should be 
done at properly accredited laboratories (minimum of Clinical Laboratory Information about biomarker testing and plasma cell-free/circulating tumor 
Improvement Amendments [CLIA] accreditation) (see Principles of DNA testing (so-called “liquid biopsy”) for genetic variants is included in 
Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). the algorithm (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the 
EGFR, KRAS, ROS1, BRAF, METex14 skipping mutations, RET NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Briefly, the panel feels that plasma 
rearrangements, and ALK genetic variants do not usually overlap; thus, cell-free/circulating tumor DNA testing should not be used to diagnose 
testing for KRAS mutations may identify patients who will not benefit from NSCLC; tissue should be used to diagnose NSCLC. Standards and 
further molecular testing.150,167-171 The KRAS oncogene is a prognostic guidelines for cell-free DNA (cfDNA)/circulating tumor DNA testing for 
biomarker. The presence of KRAS mutations is prognostic of poor survival genetic variants have not been established, there is up to a 30% 
for patients with NSCLC when compared to the absence of KRAS false-negative rate, and variants can be detected that are not related to 
mutations, independent of therapy (see KRAS Mutations in this the tumor (eg, clonal hematopoiesis of indeterminate potential 
[CHIP]).183,184
Discussion).172 KRAS mutations are also predictive of lack of benefit from  For example, an IDH1 mutation identified by cfDNA testing 
EGFR TKI therapy.147,173,174  is likely unrelated to NSCLC, given exceptionally low incidence, and is 
more likely to represent CHIP. Rare examples of CHIP with KRAS 
Other oncogenic driver variants are being identified such as high-level mutations have been described, suggesting caution in the interpretation of 
MET amplification, ERBB2 mutations, and TMB.175-178 TMB is an emerging cfDNA findings.185 In addition, CHIP can be identified following prior 
biomarker that may be helpful for identifying patients with metastatic chemotherapy or radiotherapy, further confounding interpretation of 
NSCLC who are eligible for first-line therapy with nivolumab with or without variants such as in TP53.186 Given the previous caveats, careful 
ipilimumab (see Nivolumab With or Without Ipilimumab in this consideration is required to determine whether cfDNA findings reflect a 
Discussion).179,180 However, there is no consensus on how to measure true oncogenic driver or an unrelated finding.  
TMB. Targeted agents are available for patients with NSCLC who have 
these other genetic variants, although they are FDA approved for other However, cfDNA testing can be used in specific circumstances if 1) the 
indications (see Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for patient is not medically fit for invasive tissue sampling, or 2) there is 
Patients with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for insufficient tissue for molecular analysis and follow-up tissue-based 
analysis will be done if an oncogenic driver is not identified.187,188
NSCLC).181,182 Thus, the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends molecular  Recent 
testing but strongly advises broader molecular profiling to identify these data suggest that plasma cell-free/circulating tumor DNA testing can be 
other rare driver variants for which targeted therapies may be available to used to identify EGFR, ALK, and other oncogenic biomarkers that would 
not otherwise be identified in patients with metastatic NSCLC.189-191
ensure that patients receive the most appropriate treatment; patients may  
be eligible for clinical trials for some of these targeted agents.159 Several 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-13 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Testing for Molecular Biomarkers To minimize tissue use and potential wastage, the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
Molecular testing is used to test for genomic variants associated with recommends that broad molecular profiling be done as part of biomarker 
oncogenic driver events for which targeted therapies are available; these testing using a validated test(s) that assesses a minimum of the following 
genomic variants (also known as molecular biomarkers) include gene potential genetic variants: EGFR mutations, BRAF mutations, METex14 
mutations and fusions. The various molecular testing methods that may be skipping mutations, RET rearrangements, ALK fusions, and ROS1 
used to assess for the different biomarkers are described in the algorithm fusions. Both FDA and laboratory-developed test platforms are available 
(see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN that address the need to evaluate these and other analytes. Broad 
Guidelines for NSCLC). Broad molecular profiling systems may be used to molecular profiling is also recommended to identify rare driver mutations 
simultaneously test for multiple biomarkers.  for which effective therapy may be available, such as NTRK gene 
fusions, high-level MET amplification, ERBB2 mutations, and TMB. 
Next-generation sequencing (NGS) (also known as massively parallel Although clinicopathologic features—such as smoking status, ethnicity, 
sequencing) is a type of broad molecular profiling system that can detect and histology—are associated with specific genetic variants (eg, EGFR 
panels of mutations and gene fusions if the NGS platforms have been mutations), these features should not be used to select patients for 
designed and validated to detect these genetic variants.181,192-199 It is testing. Although the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC provide 
important to recognize that NGS requires quality control as much as any recommendations for individual biomarkers that should be tested and 
other diagnostic technique; because it is primer dependent, the panel of recommend testing techniques, the guidelines do not endorse any 
genes and abnormalities detected with NGS will vary depending on the specific commercially available biomarker assays.  
design of the NGS platform. For example, some NGS platforms can detect 
both mutations and gene fusions, as well as copy number variation, but EGFR Mutations  
they are not uniformly present in all NGS assays being conducted either In patients with NSCLC, the most commonly found EGFR gene mutations 
commercially or in institutional laboratories.  are deletions in exon 19 (Exon19del [with conserved deletion of the LREA 
sequence] in 45% of patients with EGFR mutations) and a point mutation 
Other mutation screening assays are available for detecting multiple in exon 21 (L858R in 40%). Both mutations result in activation of the 
biomarkers simultaneously—such as Sequenom's MassARRAY® system tyrosine kinase domain, and both are associated with sensitivity to the 
and SNaPshot® Multiplex System—which can detect more than 50 point small-molecule EGFR TKIs, such as erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, 
mutations; NGS platforms can detect even more biomarkers. However, osimertinib, and dacomitinib (see Targeted Therapies in this 
these multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) systems do not typically Discussion).200 Thus, these drug-sensitive EGFR mutations are referred to 
detect gene fusions. ROS1 and ALK gene fusions can be detected using as sensitizing EGFR mutations. Other less common mutations (10%) that 
fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), NGS, and other methods (see are also sensitive to EGFR TKIs include exon 19 insertions, p.L861Q, 
ALK Gene Rearrangements and ROS1 Rearrangements in this Discussion p.G719X, and p.S768I (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker 
and Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).201,202 Data suggest that 
Guidelines for NSCLC).  patients harboring tumors without sensitizing EGFR mutations should not 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-14 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
be treated with EGFR TKIs in any line of therapy. These sensitizing EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations are usually resistant to erlotinib, gefitinib, 
mutations are found in approximately 10% of Caucasian patients with afatinib, or dacomitinib, although there are rare exceptions (see Principles 
NSCLC and up to 50% of Asian patients.203  of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for 
NSCLC).213-217 Patients typically progress after first-line EGFR TKI 
Most patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations are nonsmokers or former monotherapy; subsequent therapy recommendations are described in 
light smokers with adenocarcinoma histology. Data suggest that EGFR the algorithm [see Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) Systemic 
mutations can occur in patients with adenosquamous carcinoma, which is Therapy in this Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC]. EGFR 
harder to discriminate from squamous cell carcinoma in small p.Thr790Met (T790M) is a mutation associated with acquired resistance 
specimens.161 Patients with pure squamous cell carcinoma are unlikely to to EGFR TKI therapy and has been reported in about 60% of patients with 
have sensitizing EGFR mutations; those with adenosquamous carcinoma disease progression after initial response to erlotinib, gefitinib, or 
may have mutations.161 However, smoking status, ethnicity, and histology afatinib.197,218-224 Most patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations become 
should not be used in selecting patients for testing. EGFR mutation testing resistant to erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib; PFS is about 9.7 to 13 
is not usually recommended in patients who appear to have squamous cell months.207,212,219,225,226 Studies suggest T790M may rarely occur in patients 
carcinoma unless they are a former light or never-smoker, if only a small who have not previously received erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib.227 Genetic 
biopsy specimen (ie, not a surgical resection) was used to assess counseling is recommended for patients with pre-treatment p.T790M, 
histology, or if the histology is mixed.161 The ESMO Guidelines specify that because this suggests the possibility of germline mutation and is 
only patients with nonsquamous NSCLC (eg, adenocarcinoma) should be associated with predisposition to familial lung cancer.228,229 Acquired 
assessed for EGFR mutations.159,204 ASCO recommends that patients be resistance to EGFR TKIs may also be associated with histologic 
tested for EGFR mutations.205 transformation from NSCLC to SCLC and with epithelial to mesenchymal 
The predictive effects of the drug-sensitive EGFR mutations are well transition.230-233 For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
defined. Patients with these mutations have a significantly better response suggests that a biopsy can be considered at progression to rule out SCLC 
to erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, osimertinib, or dacomitinib.200 Data show that transformation. Acquired resistance can also be mediated by other 
EGFR TKI therapy should be used as first-line monotherapy in patients molecular events, such as acquisition of ALK rearrangement, MET, or 
ERBB2 amplification.234
with advanced NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR mutations documented   
before first-line systemic therapy (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel) (see Targeted The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends testing for sensitizing EGFR 
Therapies in this Discussion).206-211 Progression-free survival (PFS) is mutations in patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC 
longer with use of EGFR TKI monotherapy in patients with sensitizing NOS based on data showing the efficacy of osimertinib, erlotinib, gefitinib, 
EGFR mutations when compared with cytotoxic systemic therapy, afatinib, or dacomitinib and on FDA approvals (see Osimertinib, Erlotinib 
although overall survival is not statistically different.206,207,212  and Gefitinib, Afatinib, and Dacomitinib in this Discussion).206,208-211 DNA 
Non-responsiveness to EGFR TKI therapy is associated with KRAS and mutational analysis is the preferred method to assess for EGFR status; 
IHC is not recommended for detecting EGFR mutations.235-238
BRAF mutations and ALK or ROS1 gene fusions. Patients with EGFR  Real-time 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-15 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
PCR, Sanger sequencing (paired with tumor enrichment), and NGS are BRAF V600E is the most common of the BRAF point mutations when 
the most commonly used methods to assess EGFR mutation status (see considered across all tumor types; it occurs in 1% to 2% of patients with 
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines lung adenocarcinoma.168,246 Although other BRAF mutations occur in 
for NSCLC).160,235 Direct sequencing of DNA corresponding to exons 18 to patients with NSCLC at a rate approximately equal to p.V600E (unlike 
21 (or just testing for exons 19 and 21) is a reasonable approach; many other tumor types), specific targeted therapy is not available for 
however, more sensitive methods are available.203,237,239-241 Mutation these other mutations. Patients with BRAF V600E mutations are typically 
screening assays using multiplex PCR (eg, Sequenom's MassARRAY® current or former smokers in contrast to those with EGFR mutations or 
system, SNaPshot® Multiplex System) can simultaneously detect more ALK fusions who are typically nonsmokers.247 Mutations in BRAF typically 
than 50 point mutations.242 NGS can also be used to detect EGFR do not overlap with EGFR mutations, METex14 skipping mutations, RET 
mutations.198 rearrangements, ALK fusions, or ROS1 fusions.168,169 Testing for BRAF 
mutations is recommended (category 2A) in patients with metastatic 
Osimertinib is a preferred first-line EGFR TKI option for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and may be considered in patients with squamous 
EGFR positive metastatic NSCLC (see Osimertinib in this Discussion). For cell NSCLC (category 2A) if small biopsy specimens were used to assess 
the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN Panel preference stratified histology or mixed histology was reported.168,169 Real-time PCR, Sanger 
first-line therapy for patients with EGFR mutation positive metastatic sequencing, and NGS are the most commonly used methods to assess for 
NSCLC. Erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, or dacomitinib are “other BRAF mutations (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in 
recommended” EGFR TKI options for first-line therapy. Osimertinib is the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  
recommended (category 1) as second-line and beyond (subsequent) 
therapy for patients with EGFR T790M–positive metastatic NSCLC who The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends testing for BRAF mutations in 
have progressed on erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, or dacomitinib (see patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC based on data showing the 
Osimertinib in this Discussion).226,243 Sensitizing EGFR mutations and efficacy of dabrafenib plus trametinib for patients with BRAF V600E 
ALK or ROS1 fusions are generally mutually exclusive.171,244,245 Thus, mutations and on the FDA approval (see Dabrafenib and Trametinib in this 
crizotinib, ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib, or lorlatinib are not recommended Discussion).168 For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN Panel 
as subsequent therapy for patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations who preference stratified first-line therapy for patients with BRAF V600E 
relapse on EGFR TKI therapy. The phrase subsequent therapy was mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC. Dabrafenib plus trametinib is 
recently substituted for the terms second-line or beyond systemic recommended (category 2A; preferred) for patients with BRAF V600E 
therapy, because the line of therapy may vary depending on previous mutations. If combination therapy with dabrafenib/trametinib is not 
treatment with targeted agents.  tolerated, single-agent therapy with dabrafenib or vemurafenib are “other 
recommended” agents.168,169,248 Chemotherapy regimens also used for 
BRAF V600E Mutations  initial systemic therapy (eg, carboplatin/pemetrexed for nonsquamous 
BRAF (v-Raf murine sarcoma viral oncogene homolog B) is a NSCLC) and are “useful in certain circumstances.” Patients with BRAF 
serine/threonine kinase that is part of the MAP/ERK signaling pathway. mutations respond (24%) to immune checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs).249 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-16 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
ALK Gene Rearrangements  ceritinib are “other recommended” options, whereas crizotinib is “useful 
About 5% of patients with NSCLC have ALK gene rearrangements (also in certain circumstances” (see Brigatinib, Ceritinib, and Crizotinib in this 
known as ALK fusions).107 Patients with ALK fusions are resistant to EGFR Discussion). Patients with ALK rearrangements do not respond to ICIs.249 
TKIs but have similar clinical characteristics to those with EGFR 
mutations, such as adenocarcinoma histology and being light or never Patients typically progress after first-line therapy with alectinib, brigatinib, 
smokers.165 ALK fusions are not routinely found in patients with squamous crizotinib, or ceritinib; subsequent therapy recommendations are 
cell carcinoma. Patients with ALK gene fusions can have mixed squamous described in the algorithm [see Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) 
cell histology.162,250 It can be challenging to accurately determine histology Systemic Therapy in this Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for 
in small biopsy specimens; thus, patients may have mixed squamous cell NSCLC]. ALK or ROS1 fusions, RET rearrangements, BRAF mutations, 
histology (or squamous components) instead of pure squamous cell.  METex14 skipping mutations, and sensitizing EGFR mutations are 
generally mutually exclusive.171,244,245 Specific targeted therapy for RET 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends testing for ALK fusions in patients rearrangements, BRAF mutations, METex14 skipping mutations, and 
with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy sensitizing EGFR mutations is not recommended as subsequent therapy 
of alectinib, brigatinib, ceritinib, and crizotinib for ALK fusions and on the in patients with ALK or ROS1 fusions who relapse on alectinib, brigatinib, 
FDA approvals.251-254 If patients appear to have squamous cell NSCLC, crizotinib, ceritinib, or lorlatinib (see ALK Positive: Subsequent Therapy 
then testing can be considered if small biopsy specimens were used to in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).164,165  
assess histology, mixed histology was reported, or patients are light or 
never-smokers. The different testing methods for ALK fusions are ROS1 Rearrangements  
described in the algorithm (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Although ROS proto-oncogene 1 (ROS1) is a distinct receptor tyrosine 
Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). A molecular diagnostic kinase, it is very similar to ALK and members of the insulin receptor family 
FISH test has been approved by the FDA for detecting ALK fusions. Rapid (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN 
prescreening with IHC to assess for ALK fusions can be done.160,171,255-262 Guidelines for NSCLC).151,266
  It is estimated that ROS1 gene 
An IHC assay for ALK fusions has also been approved by the FDA. NGS rearrangements (also known as ROS1 fusions) occur in about 1% to 2% of 
can also be used to assess whether ALK fusions are present, if the patients with NSCLC; they occur more frequently in those who are 
platform has been appropriately designed and validated to detect ALK negative for EGFR mutations, KRAS mutations, and ALK gene 
fusions.263-265 fusions.118,151,153,267
   The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends ROS1 testing 
(category 2A) in patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC 
Alectinib is recommended as a preferred first-line therapy for patients with NOS based on data showing the efficacy of crizotinib, ceritinib, and 
ALK rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC (see Alectinib in this entrectinib for patients with ROS1 fusions (see Principles of Molecular and 
Discussion). For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN Panel preference Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).150,151,268,269 ROS1 
stratified first-line therapy with brigatinib, ceritinib, or crizotinib for patients testing can be considered in patients with metastatic squamous cell 
with ALK rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC. Brigatinib and NSCLC if small biopsy specimens were used to assess histology or mixed 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-17 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
histology was reported. Similar to testing for ALK fusions, testing for ROS1 whose disease becomes resistant to crizotinib, ceritinib, or 
fusions is done using FISH.153,255,270-272 NGS can also be used to assess entrectinib.278-281 The phrase subsequent therapy was recently substituted 
whether ROS1 fusions are present, if the platform has been appropriately for the terms second-line or beyond systemic therapy, because the line of 
designed and validated to detect ROS1 fusions.151 Clinicians should use therapy may vary depending on previous treatment with targeted agents.  
an appropriately validated test to detect ROS1 fusions.269  
NTRK Gene Fusions 
Crizotinib is very effective for patients with ROS1 fusions with response NTRK gene fusions encode tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) fusion 
rates of about 70% to 80% including complete responses.14,150,151,273,274 proteins (eg, TRKA, TRKB, TRKC) that act as oncogenic drivers for solid 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends crizotinib, entrectinib, or ceritinib tumors including lung, salivary gland, thyroid, and sarcoma.282-284 A 
(all are category 2A) as first-line therapy options for patients with diverse range of solid tumors in children and adults may be caused by 
ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial data (see NTRK gene fusions (eg, NTRK1, NTRK2, NTRK3). It is estimated that 
Crizotinib, Entrectinib, and Ceritinib in this Discussion). The NCCN NTRK fusions occur in 0.2% of patients with NSCLC and do not typically 
NSCLC Panel voted that crizotinib and entrectinib are the preferred overlap with other oncogenic drivers such as EGFR, ALK, or ROS1.283 
first-line therapy options for patients with ROS1-positive metastatic Various methods can be used to detect NTRK gene fusions, including 
NSCLC because they are better tolerated, have been assessed in more FISH, IHC, NGS, and PCR assays (see Principles of Molecular and 
patients, and are approved by the FDA (see Crizotinib and Entrectinib in Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). DNA-based 
this Discussion).268,269,275,276 Although entrectinib has better CNS NGS may not detect some NTRK1 and NTRK3 fusions; RNA-based NGS 
penetration than crizotinib, it is more toxic. If ROS1 fusions are may be considered to assess for fusions.285 In a clinical trial, NTRK gene 
discovered during first-line systemic therapy (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel), fusions were detected with NGS (50 patients) and FISH (5 patients).284 
then the planned therapy may be either completed or interrupted followed Larotrectinib and entrectinib are oral TKIs that inhibit TRK across a diverse 
by crizotinib (preferred), entrectinib (preferred), or ceritinib.  range of solid tumors in younger and older patients with NTRK gene–
fusion positive disease.276,284  
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends lorlatinib (category 2A) as a 
subsequent therapy option for select patients with ROS1-positive The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends NTRK gene fusion testing in 
metastatic NSCLC who have progressed after treatment with crizotinib, patients with metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial data showing the 
entrectinib, or ceritinib (see Lorlatinib in this Discussion).277 Initial systemic efficacy of larotrectinib and entrectinib for patients with NTRK gene 
therapy options that are used for adenocarcinoma or squamous cell fusion–positive disease; however, clinical data are limited in NSCLC to 
carcinoma are also an option in this setting (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel). support this recommendation.284,286,287 The NCCN NSCLC Panel 
Patients with ROS1 rearrangements have a slight response (17%) to recommends larotrectinib and entrectinib (both are category 2A) as either 
ICIs.249 Alectinib, brigatinib, and ceritinib are not recommended in patients first-line or subsequent therapy options for patients with NTRK gene 
with ROS1 fusions whose disease becomes resistant to crizotinib.151 fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC based on data and the FDA approvals 
Studies are ongoing regarding new agents for patients with ROS1 fusions (see Larotrectinib and Entrectinib in this Discussion).275,276,286,288 For the 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-18 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN Panel voted that larotrectinib and agents for patients with METex14 skipping mutations and on the FDA 
entrectinib are both preferred (category 2A) as first-line therapy for approval for capmatinib (see Oral TKIs that Inhibit MET Exon 14 Skipping 
patients with NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic disease. A new Mutations in this Discussion).294,295  
section about NTRK fusions was also added to the algorithm (see 
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines RET Rearrangements 
for NSCLC). For example, if NRTK1/2/3 testing was not included as part of RET is a tyrosine kinase receptor that affects cell proliferation and 
a broad upfront panel, then NTRK1/2/3 testing can be considered if the differentiation. Rearrangements (fusions) may occur in NSCLC between 
patient’s tumor is negative for the main oncogenic drivers (ie, pan-negative the RET gene and other domains, especially kinesin family 5B (KIF5B) 
for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF drivers).  and coiled coil domain containing-6 (CCDC6), which lead to 
overexpression of the RET protein.296,297 RET rearrangements occur in 
METex14 Skipping Mutations  about 1% to 2% of patients with NSCLC and are more frequent in patients 
C-MET, the hepatocyte growth factor (HGF) receptor, is a tyrosine kinase with adenocarcinoma histology.155,296-299 In European patients, RET 
receptor that is involved in cell survival and proliferation; oncogenic driver rearrangements occur in both smokers and nonsmokers.298 RET 
genomic alterations in MET include METex14 skipping mutations, MET rearrangements do not typically overlap with EGFR, ROS1, BRAF, 
gene copy number (GCN) gain or amplification, and MET protein METex14 skipping, and ALK genetic variants.297 However, a few studies 
overexpression.167 MET genomic alterations do not typically overlap with suggest that RET rearrangements may infrequently overlap with EGFR 
EGFR, ROS1, BRAF, and ALK genetic variants.289 However, METex14 and KRAS mutations.300,301 FISH, RT-PCR, and NGS assays can be used 
skipping mutations and MET amplification may occur together. METex14 to detect RET rearrangements.297 Patients with RET rearrangements have 
skipping mutations occur in 3% to 4% of patients with adenocarcinomas minimal response (6%) to immunotherapy.249  
NSCLC and 1% to 2% of patients with other NSCLC histologies.290,291 
METex14 skipping mutations are more frequent in older women who are For the 2020 update (Versions 4 and 7), the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
nonsmokers.292  recommends testing for RET rearrangements (category 2A) in eligible 
patients with metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of 
Several different types of METex14 skipping mutations may occur, such several agents for patients with RET rearrangements and on the FDA 
as mutations, base substitutions, and deletions, which makes it difficult to approvals for selpercatinib (LOXO-292) and pralsetinib (see Oral TKIs 
test for all of the mutations. NGS and RT-PCR assays can be used to that Inhibit RET Rearrangements in this Discussion).152,302-304  
detect METex14 skipping mutations and MET amplification. Patients with 
METex14 skipping mutations have a modest response (16%) to KRAS Mutations  
immunotherapy, even those with high PD-L1 levels.249,293 KRAS is a G-protein with GTPase activity that is part of the MAP/ERK 
pathway; point mutations in KRAS most commonly occur at codon 12. 
For the 2020 update (Version 4), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends Data suggest that approximately 25% of patients with adenocarcinomas in 
testing for METex14 skipping mutations (category 2A) in eligible patients a North American population have KRAS mutations; KRAS is the most 
with metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of several common mutation in this population.105,147,174,181,182 KRAS mutation 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-19 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
prevalence is associated with cigarette smoking.305 Patients with KRAS Although it is not an optimal biomarker, PD-L1 expression is currently the 
mutations appear to have a shorter survival than patients with wild-type best available biomarker to assess whether patients are candidates for 
KRAS; therefore, KRAS mutations are prognostic biomarkers.172,174,306 PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors (ICIs; also known as immuno-oncology [IO] 
KRAS mutational status is also predictive of lack of therapeutic efficacy agents, immunotherapy).316,317 PD-L1 expression is continuously variable 
with EGFR TKIs; it does not appear to affect chemotherapeutic and dynamic; thus, a cutoff value for a positive result is artificial. Patients 
efficacy.105,147,173 KRAS mutations do not generally overlap with EGFR, with PD-L1 expression levels just below and just above 50% will probably 
ROS1, BRAF, and ALK genetic variants.150,168-171,307 Therefore, KRAS have similar responses.316 Unique anti-PD-L1 IHC assays have been 
testing may identify patients who may not benefit from further molecular developed for each one of the different ICIs.316,318-320 The definition of a 
testing.159,173 KRAS mutations may infrequently overlap with EGFR positive PD-L1 test result varies depending on which biomarker assay is 
mutations and RET rearrangements.300,301 Targeted therapy is not used.320 Extensive effort has been undertaken to examine the 
currently available for patients with KRAS mutations, although immune cross-comparability of different clones with regard to each other to 
checkpoint inhibitors (ICIs) appear to be effective.249,308  facilitate adoption of testing.  
Testing for Immune Biomarkers: PD-L1 Expression Levels  The NCCN NSCLC Panel emphasizes that clinicians should obtain 
Human ICI antibodies inhibit the PD-1 receptor or PD-L1, which improves molecular testing results for actionable biomarkers before administering 
antitumor immunity; PD-1 receptors are expressed on activated cytotoxic first-line ICI therapy, if clinically feasible. Therefore, for the 2020 update 
T cells (see Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in this Discussion).309-311 (Version 1), the panel deleted “or unknown” regarding test results for 
Nivolumab and pembrolizumab inhibit PD-1 receptors.121,312 Atezolizumab certain actionable molecular biomarkers before administering PD-1 or 
and durvalumab inhibit PD-L1.313,314 The NCCN NSCLC Panel PD-L1 inhibitors. Patients with metastatic NSCLC and PD-L1 expression 
recommends (category 1) IHC testing for PD-L1 expression ideally before levels of 1% or more—but who also have a targetable driver oncogene 
first-line treatment (if clinically feasible) in all patients with metastatic molecular variant (eg, EGFR, ALK, ROS1)—should receive first-line 
NSCLC to assess whether the ICI regimens are an option based on targeted therapy for that oncogene and not first-line ICIs because targeted 
clinical data showing the efficacy of these regimens (see Pembrolizumab therapies yield higher response rates (eg, osimertinib, 80%) than ICIs 
in this Discussion).121,315  (poor response rates) in the first-line setting, targeted therapy is better 
tolerated, and these patients are unlikely to respond to ICIs.249,321-324 For 
The FDA-approved companion diagnostic test for PD-L1 expression is the 2020 updates (Versions 1 and 4), the NCCN NSCLC Panel also 
based on tumor proportion score (TPS) and used to determine usage of deleted “or unknown” regarding test results for PD-L1 expression levels; 
pembrolizumab in patients with metastatic NSCLC. TPS is the percentage the panel also added “ROS1 and RET fusions” along with “BRAF and MET 
of viable tumor cells showing partial or complete membrane staining at exon 14 skipping mutations” to the list of actionable biomarkers that need 
any intensity. Testing for PD-L1 is not required for prescribing first-line to be negative before administering PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors.183 At a 
therapy with the atezolizumab plus chemotherapy regimens or for minimum, EGFR and ALK status should be known before starting 
subsequent therapy with single-agent nivolumab or atezolizumab. systemic therapy with ICI regimens; however, it is ideal if ROS1, BRAF, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-20 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
RET, and MET exon 14 status are also known. If it is not feasible to do Surgery may be appropriate for select patients with uncommon types of 
molecular testing, then patients are treated as though they do not have lung cancer (eg, superior sulcus, chest wall involvement) (see the NCCN 
driver oncogenes.  Guidelines for NSCLC).334 Patients with pathologic stage II or greater 
disease can be referred to a medical oncologist for evaluation. For 
Treatment Approaches  patients with stage IIIA NSCLC that is deemed resectable, consider 
Surgery, RT, and systemic therapy are the 3 modalities most commonly referral to a radiation oncologist. Treatment delays, because of poor 
used to treat patients with NSCLC. They can be used either alone or in coordination among specialists, should be avoided.  
combination depending on the disease status. In the following sections, 
the clinical trials are described that have led to the recommended The surgical procedure used depends on the extent of disease and on the 
treatments. For tools to aid optimal assessment and management of cardiopulmonary reserve of the patient. Lung-sparing anatomic resection 
older adults, see the NCCN Guidelines for Older Adult Oncology (sleeve lobectomy) is preferred over pneumonectomy, if anatomically 
(available at www.NCCN.org). Older adults may be at risk for appropriate and if margin-negative resection can be achieved; lobectomy 
treatment-related adverse events.325  or pneumonectomy should be done if physiologically feasible.326,335,336 
Sublobular resection, either segmentectomy (preferred) or wedge 
Surgery resection, is appropriate in select patients; the parenchymal resection 
In general, surgery provides the best chance for cure in patients with stage margins are defined in the NSCLC algorithm (see Principles of Surgical 
I or II disease.326 Thoracic surgical oncology consultation should be part of Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).337-341 Resection (including 
the evaluation of any patient being considered for curative local therapy. wedge resection) is preferred over ablation.326,336 Wide wedge resection 
may improve outcomes.342
The overall plan of treatment and the necessary imaging studies should be  Patients with medically inoperable early-stage 
determined before any nonemergency treatment is initiated. It is essential NSCLC may be candidates for SABR, also known as stereotactic body RT 
(SBRT).343,344
to determine whether patients can tolerate surgery or whether they are  If SABR is considered for patients at high risk, a 
medically inoperable; some patients deemed inoperable may be able to multidisciplinary evaluation is recommended (see Stereotactic Ablative 
tolerate minimally invasive surgery and/or sublobar resection.326-330 Radiotherapy in this Discussion).345-347 
Although frailty is an increasingly recognized predictor of surgical and Lymph Node Dissection  
other treatment morbidity, a preferred frailty assessment system has not The ACOSOG Z0030 randomized trial compared systematic mediastinal 
been established.331-333  lymph node sampling versus complete lymphadenectomy during 
The Principles of Surgical Therapy are described in the NSCLC algorithm pulmonary resection in patients with NSCLC who had either N0 (no 
and are summarized here (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). demonstrable metastasis to regional lymph nodes) or N1 (metastasis to 
Determination of resectability, surgical staging, and pulmonary resection lymph nodes in the ipsilateral peribronchial and/or hilar region, including 
should be performed by thoracic surgeons who should participate in direct extension) disease. In patients with early-stage NSCLC who had 
multidisciplinary clinics and/or tumor boards for patients with lung cancer. negative nodes by systematic lymph node dissection, complete 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-21 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
mediastinal lymph node dissection did not improve survival.348,349 Thus, postoperative morbidity and mortality, minimal risk of intraoperative 
systematic lymph node sampling is appropriate during pulmonary bleeding, or minimal locoregional recurrence.360-364 Thoracoscopic 
resection; one or more nodes should be sampled from all mediastinal lobectomy is associated with less morbidity, fewer complications, and 
stations. For right-sided cancers, an adequate mediastinal more rapid return to function than lobectomy by thoracotomy.365-368  
lymphadenectomy should include stations 2R, 4R, 7, 8, and 9. For 
left-sided cancers, stations 4L, 5, 6, 7, 8, and 9 should be sampled.348 In patients with stage I NSCLC who had thorascopic lobectomy with lymph 
Patients should have N1 and N2 node resection and mapping (American node dissection, the 5-year survival rate, long-term survival, and local 
Thoracic Society map) with a minimum of 3 N2 stations sampled or a recurrence rate were comparable to those achieved by routine open lung 
complete lymph node dissection.135 The lymph node map from the IASLC resection.369-373 Thorascopic lobectomy has also been shown to improve 
may be useful.350 Formal ipsilateral mediastinal lymph node dissection is discharge independence in older populations and patients at high 
risk.374,375
indicated for patients undergoing resection for stage IIIA (N2) disease. For  Data show that thorascopic lobectomy improves the ability of 
patients to complete postoperative chemotherapy regimens.376,377
patients undergoing sublobular resection, the appropriate N1 and N2  Based 
lymph node stations should be sampled unless not technically feasible on its favorable effects on postoperative recovery and morbidity, 
because sampling would substantially increase the surgical risk.  thorascopic lobectomy (including robotic-assisted approaches) is 
recommended in the NSCLC algorithm as an acceptable approach for 
Sublobular resection, either segmentectomy (preferred) or wedge patients who are surgically resectable (and have no anatomic or surgical 
resection, is appropriate in select patients (see Principles of Surgical contraindications) as long as principles of thoracic surgery are not 
Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC): 1) those who are not compromised (see Principles of Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines 
eligible for lobectomy; and 2) those with a peripheral nodule 2 cm or less for NSCLC).378-381 Robotic VATS seems to be more expensive with longer 
with very low-risk features. Segmentectomy (preferred) or wedge resection operating times than conventional VATS.382,383  
should achieve parenchymal resection margins that are: 1) 2 cm or more; 
or 2) the size of the nodule or larger.  Stage IIIA N2 Disease 
The role of surgery in patients with pathologically documented stage IIIA 
Thorascopic Lobectomy  (N2) disease is described in the NSCLC algorithm (see Principles of 
Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS), which is also known as Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC) and summarized 
thorascopic lobectomy, is a minimally invasive surgical treatment that is here. Before treatment, it is essential to carefully evaluate for N2 disease 
currently being investigated in all aspects of lung cancer (see Principles of using radiologic and invasive staging (ie, EBUS-guided procedures, 
Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).351,352 Published mediastinoscopy, thorascopic procedures) and to discuss whether surgery 
studies suggest that thorascopic lobectomy has several advantages over is appropriate in a multidisciplinary team, which should include a thoracic 
thoracotomy.353-357 Acute and chronic pain associated with thorascopic surgeon.384,385 Randomized controlled trials suggest that surgery does not 
lobectomy is minimal; thus, this procedure requires a shorter length of increase survival in these patients.386,387 However, one of these trials 
hospitalization.358,359 Thorascopic lobectomy is also associated with low (EORTC) only enrolled patients with unresectable disease.387 Most 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-22 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
clinicians agree that resection is appropriate for patients with negative delivery.401-406 These RT principles are summarized in this section. Whole 
preoperative mediastinal nodes and with a single positive node (<3 cm) brain RT and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for brain metastases are 
found at thoracotomy.388 Neoadjuvant (preoperative) therapy is also discussed in this section. The RT abbreviations are defined in the 
recommended for select patients. The optimal timing of RT in trimodality NSCLC algorithm (see Table 1 in Principles of Radiation Therapy in the 
therapy (preoperative with chemotherapy or postoperative) is not NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
established and controversial.389,390 In patients with N2 disease, 50% of extensively revised the RT recommendations in the algorithm (see 
the NCCN Member Institutions use preoperative chemoradiotherapy Principles of Radiation Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). For 
whereas 50% use preoperative chemotherapy.391,392 There is no evidence example, some of the normal tissue dose constraints for conventionally 
that adding RT to induction regimens improves outcomes for patients with fractionated RT were revised based on the biomedical literature (see 
stage IIIA (N2) disease when compared with using chemotherapy alone.390 Table 5).407-412  
Clinicians also agree that resection is not appropriate for patients with 
multiple pathologically proven malignant lymph nodes greater than 3 cm; General Principles 
definitive chemoradiotherapy is recommended for these patients.  Treatment recommendations should be made by a multidisciplinary team. 
Because RT has a potential role in all stages of NSCLC, as either 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel believes that surgery may be appropriate for definitive or palliative therapy, input from radiation oncologists who 
select patients with N2 disease, especially those whose disease responds perform lung cancer RT as a prominent part of their practice should be 
to induction chemotherapy (see Principles of Surgical Therapy in the part of the multidisciplinary evaluation for all patients with NSCLC. Uses of 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).384,393 It is controversial whether RT for NSCLC include: 1) definitive therapy for locally advanced NSCLC, 
pneumonectomy after preoperative chemoradiotherapy is generally combined with chemotherapy; 2) definitive therapy for 
appropriate.386,393-399 Patients with resectable stage IIIA (N2) disease early-stage NSCLC in patients with contraindications for surgery; 3) 
should not be excluded from surgery, because some of them may have preoperative or postoperative therapy for selected patients treated with 
long-term survival or may be cured.393,400 For the 2020 update (Version 1), surgery; 4) therapy for limited recurrences and metastases; and/or 5) 
the NCCN NSCLC panel deleted the recommendation for postoperative palliative therapy for patients with incurable NSCLC.347,413-420 The goals of 
chemotherapy in patients with T1–3 (other than invasive) N2 disease RT are to maximize tumor control and to minimize treatment toxicity. 
receiving induction chemotherapy with or without RT. Advanced technologies such as 4D-conformal RT simulation, 
intensity-modulated RT/volumetric modulated arc therapy (IMRT/VMAT), 
Radiation Therapy  image-guided RT, motion management strategies, and proton therapy 
The Principles of Radiation Therapy in the NSCLC algorithm include the have been shown to reduce toxicity and increase survival in 
following: 1) general principles for early-stage, locally advanced, and nonrandomized trials.421-427 A secondary analysis of the RTOG 0617 
advanced/metastatic NSCLC; 2) target volumes, prescription doses, and randomized trial reported that 2-year overall survival, PFS, local failure, 
normal tissue dose constraints for early-stage, locally advanced, and and distant metastasis-free survival were not significantly different for 
advanced/metastatic NSCLC; and 3) RT simulation, planning, and IMRT when compared with 3D-conformal RT. IMRT yielded lower rates of 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-23 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
severe pneumonitis when compared with 3D-conformal RT (3.5% vs. are also a helpful reference.423,446,447 It is essential to evaluate the 
7.9%; P = .039).428 CT-planned 3D-conformal RT is now considered to be dose-volume histogram (DVH) of critical structures and to limit the doses 
the minimum level.  to the organs at risk (such as spinal cord, lungs, heart, esophagus, and 
brachial plexus) to minimize normal tissue toxicity (see Table 5 in 
Radiation Simulation, Planning, and Delivery  Principles of Radiation Therapy).448 For patients receiving postoperative 
Simulation should be performed using CT scans obtained in the RT RT (also known as PORT), stricter DVH parameters should be considered 
treatment position. Intravenous contrast CT scans, with or without oral for the lungs. The QUANTEC review provides the most comprehensive 
contrast, are recommended for better target delineation whenever estimates from clinical data of dose-response relationships for normal 
possible, especially in patients with central tumors or nodal involvement. tissue complications.449-453  
FDG PET/CT can significantly improve target delineation accuracy, 
especially when there is atelectasis or contraindications to intravenous CT Recently, some of the normal tissue dose constraints for conventionally 
contrast.429,430 Ideally, PET/CT should be obtained 4 weeks before fractionated RT were revised based on a survey of radiation oncologists at 
treatment because of the potential for rapid progression of NSCLC.431,432 In NCCN Member Institutions (see Table 5 in Principles of Radiation Therapy 
the NSCLC algorithm, recommendations are provided for patients in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).407-412 These constraints are mainly 
receiving chemoradiation (including those with compromised lung or empirical and have not, for the most part, been validated 
cardiac function), photon beams, or IMRT (see Radiation Therapy rigorously.411,438,454-459 Therefore, the doses and constraints provided in the 
Simulation, Planning, and Delivery in the Principles of Radiation Therapy tables are not specific prescriptive recommendations; they are useful 
in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).426,433-436 Respiratory motion should reference doses that have been commonly used or are from previous 
be managed. The report from the AAPM Task Group 76 is a useful clinical trials. A caveat was also added that these constraints represent 
reference for implementing a broad range of motion management doses that generally should not be exceeded. Because the risk of toxicity 
strategies as described in the NSCLC algorithm (see Radiation Therapy increases progressively with dose to normal tissues, a key principle of 
Simulation, Planning, and Delivery in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).437  radiation treatment planning is to keep normal tissue doses "as low as 
reasonably achievable" while adequately covering the target. The doses to 
Target Volumes, Prescription Doses, and Normal Tissue Dose Constraints  any given organ at risk should typically be lower than these constraints, 
Commonly used prescription RT (or SABR) doses and normal tissue dose approaching them only when there is close proximity to the target volume. 
constraints are summarized in the Principles of Radiation Therapy in the After surgery, lung tolerance to RT is much less than for patients with 
NSCLC algorithm (see Tables 2–5 in the NCCN Guidelines for intact lungs; therefore, more conservative constraints should be used for 
NSCLC).402,404,417,438-443 Reports 50, 62, and 83 from the International postoperative RT.  
Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements provide a formalism 
for defining RT target volumes based on grossly visible disease, potential For definitive RT, the commonly prescribed dose is 60 to 70 Gy in 2 Gy 
microscopic extension, and margins for target motion and daily positioning fractions over 6 to 7 weeks (see Principles of Radiation Therapy in the 
uncertainty;444,445 the ACR Practice Parameters and Technical Standards NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).460,461 RTOG 0617, a phase 3 randomized 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-24 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
trial, suggests that high-dose radiation using 74 Gy with concurrent NSCLC). In patients with clinical stage I or II NSCLC who are upstaged 
chemotherapy does not improve survival, and might be harmful, when to N2+ after surgery, postoperative chemotherapy can be administered 
compared with a dose of 60 Gy.408,462-466 Although optimal RT dose followed by postoperative RT depending on the margin status (see the 
intensification remains a valid question, at higher RT doses, normal tissue NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Postoperative RT has been associated 
constraints become even more important.464 Although the RT dose to the with increased mortality in patients with pathologic stage N0 to 1 
heart was decreased in the RTOG 0617 trial, survival was decreased; disease, although the study used older RT techniques.485  
thus, more stringent constraints may be appropriate.466-472 The NCCN 
Panel does not currently recommend a high dose of 74 Gy for routine Definitive chemoradiation is recommended for patients with stage II to III 
use.463,465,466,468-475  disease who are not appropriate surgical candidates.486 For patients with 
locally advanced NSCLC (stage III), the most commonly prescribed 
General Treatment Information conventionally fractionated doses for definitive RT are 60 to 70 Gy in 2 
The RT recommendations for patients with stages I to IV are described in Gy fractions. Doses of at least 60 Gy should be given.487 Dose escalation 
the NSCLC algorithm (see Principles of Radiation Therapy in the NCCN is associated with better survival in non-randomized comparisons in RT 
Guidelines for NSCLC).  alone, sequential chemo/RT, or concurrent chemo/RT.468,475,488 A 
meta-analysis demonstrated improved survival with accelerated 
Definitive RT, particularly SABR, is recommended for patients with fractionation RT regimens.489 Involved-field RT (also known as 
early-stage NSCLC (ie, stage I–II, N0) who are medically inoperable or involved-field irradiation or IFI) is an option for treating nodal disease in 
those who refuse surgery (see Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy in this patients with locally advanced NSCLC; IFI may offer advantages over 
Discussion).343,344,347,420,476,477 Image-guided thermal ablation is an option elective nodal irradiation (ENI).490-497 
for selected patients who are medically inoperable or those who need 
definitive local therapy.326,478-482 By extrapolation from surgical data, The optimal management of patients with potentially operable stage IIIA 
chemotherapy may be considered after definitive RT/SABR in patients (N2) NSCLC is controversial and is discussed in detail in the algorithm 
with high-risk factors for recurrence (eg, large tumors >4 cm in size); for (see Principles of Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for 
the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel revised the NSCLC).384,386,398,498 For patients undergoing preoperative therapy before 
chemotherapy recommendation to category 2A from 2B.345,483 SABR is surgical resection of stage IIIA NSCLC, some oncologists prefer 
also an option for patients at high surgical risk who cannot tolerate a chemotherapy alone rather than chemoradiotherapy for the preoperative 
lobectomy (eg, major medical comorbidity or severely limited lung treatment;390 RT should generally be given postoperatively if not given 
function). Resection is recommended for patients with early-stage NSCLC preoperatively.499 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends a preoperative 
who are medically fit (see Principles of Surgical Therapy in the NCCN RT dose of 45 to 54 Gy in 1.8 to 2 Gy fractions.389,500 Definitive RT doses 
Guidelines for NSCLC).484 The indications for using preoperative or delivered as preoperative chemo/RT can safely be administered and 
postoperative chemoradiation or RT alone are described in the NSCLC achieve promising nodal clearance and survival rates;441-443,501 the risk of 
algorithm (see Principles of Radiation Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for surgical complications after high-dose RT can be minimized with expert 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-25 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
thoracic surgical techniques. NCCN Member Institutions are split evenly For patients with advanced lung cancer (ie, stage IV) with extensive 
in their use of preoperative chemotherapy versus preoperative metastases, systemic therapy is recommended; palliative RT can be 
chemoradiation in patients with stage IIIA N2 NSCLC.384 Similarly, some used for symptom relief and potentially for prophylaxis at primary or 
consider the need for pneumonectomy to be a contraindication to a distant sites (such as pain, bleeding, or obstruction).420,506-508 Shorter 
combined modality surgical approach given the excess mortality courses of palliative RT are preferred for patients with symptomatic chest 
observed in clinical trials,386 but NCCN Member Institutions are split on disease who have poor PS and/or shorter life expectancy (eg, 17 Gy in 
this practice as well.  8.5 Gy fractions), because they provide similar pain relief as longer 
courses, although there is a higher potential need for retreatment (see 
In postoperative RT, the clinical target volume (CTV) includes the Table 4 in the Principles of Radiation Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines 
bronchial stump and high-risk draining lymph node stations.502 Standard for NSCLC).509-512 Higher dose and longer course thoracic RT (eg, ≥30 
doses after complete resection are 50 to 54 Gy in 1.8 to 2 Gy fractions, Gy in 10 fractions) are associated with modestly improved survival and 
but a boost may be administered to high-risk regions including areas of symptoms, especially in patients with good PS.506,513 When higher doses 
nodal extracapsular extension or microscopic positive margins.403,503,504 (>30 Gy) are warranted, technologies to reduce normal tissue irradiation 
Lung dose constraints should be more conservative, because tolerance may be used (at least 3D-CRT and including IMRT or proton therapy as 
appears to be reduced after surgery. The European LungART trial appropriate).  
provides useful guidelines for postoperative RT technique.505 Surgery is 
associated with potentially greater risk of complications, particularly Oligometastatic disease is heterogenous and refers to isolated or limited 
stump breakdown and bronchopleural fistula, in a field that has had metastatic sites; management is evolving. Definitive local therapy to 
high-dose RT (eg, 60 Gy). Thus, surgeons are often wary of resection in oligometastases (including brain, lung) achieves prolonged survival in a 
areas that have previously received RT doses of more than 45 to 50 Gy, small proportion of well-selected patients with good PS who have also 
especially in patients who have received definitive doses of preoperative received radical therapy to the intrathoracic disease.514 Definitive RT to 
concurrent chemoradiation (ie, ≥60 Gy). Soft tissue flap coverage and oligometastases, particularly SABR, is an appropriate option in such cases 
reduced intraoperative fluid administration and ventilator pressures can if it can be delivered safely to the involved sites.515,516 In 2 randomized 
reduce the risk of these complications.441-443 When giving preoperative phase II trials, significantly longer PFS was found for local consolidative 
RT to less than definitive doses (eg, 45 Gy), one should be prepared up therapy (RT or surgery) to primary and oligometastatic lesions versus 
front to continue to a full definitive dose of RT without interruption if the maintenance systemic therapy or observation for patients not progressing 
patient does not proceed to surgery for some reason. For these reasons, on systemic therapy.517,518 Updated data from one of the trials also shows 
when considering trimodality therapy, the treatment plan—including that median overall survival was longer for patients with oligometastatic 
assessment for resectability and the type of resection—should be NSCLC who received local consolidative therapy (median, 41.2 months; 
decided before initiation of any therapy.  95% CI, 18.9 months–not reached) compared with those receiving 
maintenance therapy or observation (median, 17.0 months; 95% CI, 10.1–
39.8 months; P = .017).519 A phase 2 trial of consolidative RT for 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-26 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
oligometastatic NSCLC (n = 29) reported median overall survival of SABR.543,544 A multidisciplinary evaluation is recommended to provide 
28.4 months (95% CI, 14.5–45.8 months).520 The NCCN Guidelines consensus that a biopsy is safe or too risky. Data suggest that survival 
recommend that local therapy (RT, SABR, or surgery) to primary and outcomes may be biased in patients who do not receive pathologic 
oligometastatic lesions should be considered for patients without confirmation of malignancy; some of these patients may not have 
progression on systemic therapy.517-519  NSCLC.543  
Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy  SABR is recommended in the NSCLC algorithm for patients with stage I 
SABR (also known as SBRT) uses short courses of very high (ablative), and II (T1–3,N0,M0) NSCLC who are medically inoperable; SABR is a 
highly conformal, and dose-intensive RT precisely delivered to limited-size reasonable alternative to surgery for patients with potentially operable 
targets.343,521-524 Studies, including prospective multi-institutional trials, disease who are high risk, elderly, or refuse surgery after appropriate 
have demonstrated the efficacy of SABR for patients with inoperable stage consultation (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).326,529,531,545,546 A 
I NSCLC or for those who refuse surgery.347,525-529 With conventionally combined analysis of 2 randomized trials (that individually did not 
fractionated RT, 3-year survival is only about 20% to 35% in these complete accrual) compared SABR to lobectomy.545 This analysis does 
patients, with local failure rates of about 40% to 60%.344 In prospective not provide sufficient data to change the standard of care for good 
clinical trials, local control and overall survival appear to be considerably surgical candidates but helps to confirm the indication for SABR in 
increased with SABR, generally more than 85%, and about 60% at 3 years patients with relative contraindications for surgery or those who refuse 
(median survival, 4 years), respectively, in patients who are medically surgery. SABR can also be used for patients with limited lung metastases 
inoperable.326,344,436,482,484,528,530-535 A 7-year follow-up of 65 patients with or limited metastases to other body sites.522,529,547-553 After SABR, 
medically inoperable stage I NSCLC reported that overall survival rates assessment of recurrences by imaging can be challenging because of 
were 55.7% at 5 years and 47.5% at 7 years.476 In 12 patients (18.5%), a benign inflammatory/fibrotic changes that can remain FDG-PET avid for 2 
second primary lung carcinoma developed after SABR at a median of 35 or more years after treatment, emphasizing the importance of follow-up by 
months (range, 5–67 months); 27% (18/65) had disease recurrence a a team with experience interpreting such post-treatment effects.554,555 This 
median of 14.5 months (range, 4.3–71.5 months) after SABR.  careful follow-up is particularly relevant, because selected patients with 
localized recurrences after SABR may benefit from surgery or re-treatment 
Substantially higher survival has been observed in patients with with SABR.556-560  
potentially operable disease who are treated with SABR; survival is 
comparable in population-based comparisons to surgical outcomes, but SABR fractionation regimens and a limited subset of historically used 
locoregional recurrences are more frequent.484,527,536-541 It has not been maximum dose constraints are provided in the NSCLC algorithm; 1 to 5 
shown that use of SABR for medically operable patients provides fractions are generally used (see Tables 2 and 3 in the Principles of 
long-term outcomes equivalent to surgery. Late recurrences have been Radiation Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).343,526,528,535,561-571 
reported more than 5 years after SABR, highlighting the need for careful In the United States, only regimens of 5 fractions or less meet the arbitrary 
surveillance.542 If possible, biopsy should confirm NSCLC before use of billing code definition for SABR; however, slightly more protracted 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-27 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
regimens are also appropriate.571,572 Prescription doses do not completely interventional radiology ablation techniques. Interventional radiology 
describe the actual delivered doses.573,574 These dose constraints are ablation may be appropriate for selected patients for whom local control is 
point-of-reference doses and are not intended to be prescriptive; they are not necessarily the highest priority.326,347,482  
used commonly or have been used in clinical trials. Although none of 
these dose constraints has been validated as a maximally tolerated dose, Whole Brain RT and Stereotactic Radiosurgery 
outcomes of clinical trials to date suggest that they are safe constraints. Many patients with NSCLC have brain metastases (30%–50%), which 
substantially affect their quality of life.20,591
The bronchial tree, esophagus, and brachial plexus are critical structures  Whole brain RT is associated 
for SABR. For centrally located tumors—those within 2 cm in all directions with measurable declines in neurocognitive function in clinical trials, 
particularly with increasing dose and advanced age of the patient.592-594
of any mediastinal critical structure, including the bronchial tree,  
esophagus, heart, brachial plexus, major vessels, spinal cord, phrenic However, control of brain metastases confers improved neurocognitive 
function.595,596
nerve, and recurrent laryngeal nerve—regimens of 54 to 60 Gy in 3  For limited metastases, randomized trials have found that 
fractions are not safe and should be avoided; 4 to 10 fraction SABR the addition of whole brain RT to SRS decreases intracranial recurrence 
regimens appear to be effective and safe (see Principles of Radiation but does not improve survival and may increase the risk of cognitive 
Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).345,564,575-577 decline.596,597
 Data from the  Thus, SRS alone is recommended for patients with limited 
RTOG 0813 trial suggest that 5-fraction regimens are safe.578,579  volume metastases.598 A randomized trial assessed cognitive function in 
213 patients with 1 to 3 brain metastases who received SRS alone versus 
SRS or SABR for limited oligometastases to the brain or other body sites, SRS with whole brain RT; most patients had lung cancer.599 At 3 months 
respectively, is recommended for patients with good PS if their thoracic after SRS alone, patients had less cognitive deterioration (40/63 patients 
disease can be treated with definitive therapy (see Stage IV, M1b in the [63.5%]) than those receiving SRS plus whole brain RT (44/48 patients 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).334,515,516,529,580-583 SRS or SABR can be [91.7%]; difference, -28.2%; 90% CI, -41.9% to -14.4%; P < .001). Some 
considered for select patients with stage M1c disease who have a limited have suggested that resection followed by SRS to the cavity (instead of 
number and volume of metastatic lesions that are amenable to treatment resection followed by whole brain RT) will decrease the risk of 
with definitive local therapy; limited number is not defined but clinical trials neurocognitive problems.600,601 A study suggests that using IMRT to 
have included up to 3 to 5 small metastases.580,581 Targeted therapy and avoid the hippocampus may help decrease memory impairment after 
consideration of local therapy (eg, surgery or SABR [or SRS] for isolated whole brain RT.602 A phase 3 randomized trial assessed optimal 
lesions) are recommended for patients with ALK fusions or sensitizing supportive care (including dexamethasone) with whole brain RT versus 
EGFR mutations who have progressed on targeted therapy, depending on optimal supportive care alone in patients with NSCLC and brain 
the type of progression.584-587 Decisions about whether to recommend metastases who were not eligible for brain surgery or SRS.603 Overall 
SABR should be based on multidisciplinary discussion. Hypofractionated survival was similar between the groups (HR, 1.06; 95% CI, 0.90–1.26). 
or dose-intensified conventional 3D-conformal RT is an option if an Overall quality of life, use of dexamethasone, and reported adverse 
established SABR program is not available.588-590 Nonrandomized clinical events were also similar between the arms. Two retrospective analyses 
data indicate that local tumor control with SABR is higher than with 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-28 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
have reported increased survival in patients with brain metastases who to improve survival in patients with early-stage disease.621-624 Some 
received SRS and concurrent ICI therapy.604,605  studies suggest that preoperative chemotherapy (also referred to as 
neoadjuvant chemotherapy or induction chemotherapy) is as effective as 
Options for treatment of limited brain metastases in patients with NSCLC and better tolerated than postoperative chemotherapy (see Preoperative 
include: 1) SRS alone; and 2) surgical resection for selected patients Chemotherapy Followed by Surgery: Trial Data in this Discussion).384,625-631 
followed by SRS or whole brain RT (see the NCCN Guidelines for A randomized trial found no difference in survival with preoperative versus 
NSCLC). Selected patients include those with symptomatic metastases or postoperative chemotherapy.632 The NCCN Guidelines state that patients 
whose tumor tissue is needed for diagnosis.550,591,599,606-612 Decisions about with stage II or IIIA (T3,N1) disease may be treated with induction 
whether to recommend SRS alone or brain surgery followed by whole chemotherapy before surgery if they are candidates for therapy after 
brain RT or SRS for limited brain metastases should be based on surgery.326,633 Concurrent chemoradiation is more efficacious than 
multidisciplinary discussion, weighing the potential benefit over the risk for sequential chemoradiation for patients with unresectable stage III 
each individual patient.606,613-615 Treatment should be individualized for disease.634-637 Cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents can cause hair loss, 
patients with recurrent or progressive brain lesions.616 Treatment of limited which is distressing for patients. Hair loss varies depending on the 
brain metastases in patients with NSCLC differs from that recommended regimen and other factors. Data in women with non-metastatic breast 
in the NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers, because cancer suggest that a scalp cooling device may help reduce hair loss in 
patients with NSCLC and brain metastases often have long-term survival; patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy regimens.638-642  
therefore, the potential neurocognitive issues that may occur with whole 
brain RT are a concern.617 Clinicians are using whole brain RT less often For patients with stage IV disease who have a good PS, platinum-based 
in patients with NSCLC and limited brain metastases.599 For multiple chemotherapy is beneficial.643-648 Data show that early palliative care 
metastases (eg, >3), whole brain RT is recommended; SRS may be combined with systemic therapy improved quality of life, mood, and 
preferred for patients who have good PS and low systemic tumor burden survival in patients with metastatic NSCLC, even if these patients had less 
(see the NCCN Guidelines for Central Nervous System Cancers, aggressive end-of-life care, when compared with those not receiving 
available at www.NCCN.org).598,618-620  palliative care alone.649,650 Patients should receive treatment for debilitating 
symptoms.20,651,652 A study also suggests that social support, such as 
Combined Modality Therapy  being married, is as effective as systemic therapy.653 Data suggest that 
As previously mentioned, surgery provides the best chance for cure for systematic symptom monitoring during outpatient chemotherapy treatment 
patients with stage I or II disease who are medically fit and can tolerate increases overall survival when compared with usual care.654-656 Surgery is 
surgery. SABR can be considered for patients with unresectable stage I or rarely recommended for patients with stage IV disease. However, surgical 
II (T1–3,N0) disease or those who refuse surgery if their disease is node resection of limited brain metastases may improve survival in selected 
negative (see Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy in this Discussion and patients with stage IV disease and is recommended for selected patients 
see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). In patients with completely in the NCCN Guidelines (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC, available 
resected NSCLC, adjuvant (postoperative) chemotherapy has been shown at www.NCCN.org).657 Definitive local therapy with surgical resection or 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-29 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
RT is recommended for limited single-organ metastases located in sites 9 years of follow-up.659 In patients with stage II disease receiving 
other than the brain if definitive thoracic therapy is feasible (see Stage postoperative chemotherapy, median survival is 6.8 versus 3.6 years in 
IVA, M1b in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).334,514,517,519,529,580,581 The those who were only observed. Of note, patients receiving chemotherapy 
trials supporting the recommendations for combined modality therapy are did not have an increased death rate.  
discussed in the following sections.  
In the ANITA trial, 840 patients with stage IB (T2a,N0), II, or IIIA NSCLC 
Surgery Followed by Chemotherapy: Trial Data were randomly assigned either to postoperative vinorelbine/cisplatin or to 
The International Adjuvant Lung Cancer Trial (IALT) assessed observation.624 Grade 3/4 toxicities were manageable in the chemotherapy 
cisplatin-based postoperative therapy in patients with completely resected group; 7 toxic deaths were reported. After a median follow-up of 76 
stage I, II, or III NSCLC.622 The study included 1867 patients with months, median survival was 66 months in the chemotherapy group and 
surgically resected lung cancer who were randomly assigned either to 44 months in the observation group.624 Postoperative chemotherapy 
cisplatin-based postoperative chemotherapy or to observation, with a significantly improved (8.6%) the 5-year overall survival in patients with 
median follow-up duration of 56 months. The survival rate at 5 years was completely resected stage II and IIIA disease, although no benefit was 
45% for cisplatin-based therapy versus 40% for observation (HR for death, observed in stage I. Some clinicians consider vinorelbine/cisplatin to be 
0.86; 95% CI, 0.76–0.98; P < .03); the disease-free survival rate was 39% the preferred regimen for completely resected early-stage NSCLC based 
versus 34% at 5 years (HR, 0.83; 95% CI, 0.74–0.94; P < .003). However, on the number of trials and the amount of use;660 however, most clinicians 
after 7.5 years of follow-up, there were more deaths in the chemotherapy in the United States prefer to use regimens with less toxicity.661,662  
group and the benefit of chemotherapy decreased over time.658 Data show 
that postoperative chemotherapy prevents recurrences.  A meta-analysis of 4,584 patients (LACE) found that postoperative 
cisplatin-based chemotherapy increased survival over 5 years (absolute 
The NCIC CTG JBR.10 trial and the ANITA trial compared the benefit of 5.4%); there was no difference among the chemotherapy 
effectiveness of postoperative vinorelbine/cisplatin versus observation in regimens (vinorelbine, etoposide, and others).663 A subgroup analysis 
early-stage NSCLC. In the JBR.10 trial, 482 patients (ECOG PS of 0–1) found that cisplatin/vinorelbine also increased survival.660 The benefit was 
with completely resected stage IB (T2a,N0) or stage II (T1,N1, or T2,N1) greater in patients with stage II and III disease and with good PS. 
NSCLC were randomly assigned either to vinorelbine/cisplatin or to Postoperative chemotherapy benefited elderly patients up to 80 years of 
observation.623 Postoperative chemotherapy significantly prolonged overall age.329,664  
survival compared with observation alone (94 vs. 73 months; HR for 
death, 0.69; P = .04) and relapse-free survival (not reached vs. 47 months, The CALGB 9633 trial assessed paclitaxel/carboplatin in patients with 
HR for recurrence, 0.60; P < .001). The 5-year survival rates were 69% stage IB (T2a,N0,M0) lung cancer.665-667 In this trial, 344 patients were 
and 54%, respectively (P = .03). When compared with observation alone, randomly assigned either to paclitaxel/carboplatin or to observation (within 
postoperative chemotherapy is beneficial for patients with stage II disease 4–8 weeks of resection) with a median follow-up duration of 74 months. 
but not for stage IB disease as shown by updated data from JBR.10 after Postoperative chemotherapy was well tolerated with no 
chemotherapy-related toxic deaths. Overall survival at 6 years was not 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-30 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
significantly different (however, a subset analysis showed a benefit for recommended regimens include cisplatin/vinorelbine and 
tumors 4 cm or more), although 3-year survival was significant (80% vs. cisplatin/etoposide.622-624 Preoperative and postoperative therapy regimens 
73%, P = .02).666,667 Thus, the carboplatin/paclitaxel regimen is only for patients with comorbidities or those not able to tolerate cisplatin are 
recommended for early-stage disease if patients cannot tolerate cisplatin designated as useful in certain circumstances and include: 1) 
(see Chemotherapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy in carboplatin/paclitaxel; 2) carboplatin/gemcitabine; and 3) 
the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).668 It is important to note that the carboplatin/pemetrexed (but only for nonsquamous NSCLC).674-677 
CALGB trial was underpowered for patients with stage 1B disease.669  Preoperative and postoperative therapy is also known as neoadjuvant and 
adjuvant therapy, respectively.  
The TREAT study assessed cisplatin/pemetrexed versus 
cisplatin/vinorelbine as postoperative therapy for patients with completely Preoperative Chemotherapy Followed by Surgery: Trial Data  
resected stages IB to III NSCLC in a phase 2 randomized trial.661 The trial Data from clinical trials in patients with resected NSCLCs indicate that 
showed that cisplatin/pemetrexed was an effective, less toxic regimen delivery of chemotherapy is an important problem. In the postoperative 
compared with cisplatin/vinorelbine; in addition, patients were able to setting, significant comorbidities and incomplete recovery after surgery 
receive more cycles of cisplatin/pemetrexed compared with often make it difficult for patients to tolerate systemic therapy. This 
cisplatin/vinorelbine.661 Overall survival at 3 years was similar between the problem was demonstrated in NATCH, a phase 3 randomized trial—which 
arms (75% vs. 77%; P = .858).670  compared surgery alone to preoperative or postoperative chemotherapy 
with paclitaxel/carboplatin—because 90% of the preoperative cohort 
In the NSCLC algorithm for resected stage IA disease, postoperative completed 3 cycles of chemotherapy but only 61% of the postoperative 
chemotherapy is not recommended based on the trials described in the cohort completed chemotherapy; however, survival was equivalent among 
previous paragraphs.671 Postoperative chemotherapy may be considered all 3 arms.630 A randomized trial found no difference in 3-year overall 
for high-risk, margin-negative, stage IB disease (see the NCCN Guidelines survival (67.4% vs. 67.7%) with preoperative versus postoperative 
for NSCLC). Recommended chemotherapy regimens for preoperative and chemotherapy in patients with early-stage NSCLC; response rate and 
postoperative chemotherapy for patients with patients with completely quality of life were similar in both arms.632 Postoperative chemotherapy 
resected stages IB to III NSCLC are provided in the NCCN Guidelines; the (with or without RT or reresection) is recommended and typically used for 
regimens also include specific dosing (see Chemotherapy Regimens for early-stage disease in the NCCN Guidelines.326  
Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for 
NSCLC).621,671 For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel Several trials suggest that preoperative therapy is beneficial in patients 
preference stratified all the systemic therapy regimens and decided that with N2 disease.384,390,629 Other trials suggest that preoperative therapy is 
cisplatin/pemetrexed is the preferred preoperative and postoperative beneficial in patients with earlier stage disease.626,627,631 A follow-up, 
regimen for nonsquamous NSCLC.661,670 Cisplatin/gemcitabine and randomized intergroup trial (SWOG 9900) evaluated preoperative 
cisplatin/docetaxel are the preferred preoperative and postoperative paclitaxel/carboplatin in 354 patients with stage IB to IIIA (but not N2) 
regimens for patients with squamous cell NSCLC.672,673 Other disease versus surgery alone. The trial closed prematurely because of 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-31 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
practice changes and was therefore not appropriately powered. This anticipated response to therapy but also on how well the patient is 
SWOG trial did show a trend toward improved PFS (33 vs. 20 months) anticipated to tolerate therapy. Accelerated RT regimens may be useful if 
and overall survival (62 vs. 41 months) with preoperative chemotherapy, concurrent chemoradiation would not be tolerated.489,685 Sequential 
and no difference in resection rates between the 2 arms.631  chemoradiation or RT alone is recommended for frail patients who cannot 
tolerate concurrent chemoradiation.327,686  
Scagliotti et al published a phase 3 trial of preoperative 
cisplatin/gemcitabine versus surgery alone in 270 patients with stage IB to JCOG0301, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed chemo/RT using 
IIIA disease. Although the trial closed early, a significant survival benefit low-dose carboplatin versus RT alone in elderly patients (>70 years) with 
was seen in patients with stages IIB and IIIA disease who received unresectable NSCLC.687 Median overall survival was 22.4 months (95% 
chemotherapy (HR, 0.63).626 Song et al published a meta-analysis of all CI, 16.5–33.6) for chemoradiotherapy with carboplatin and 16.9 months 
available randomized clinical trials evaluating preoperative chemotherapy (95% CI, 13.4–20.3) for RT alone (HR, 0.68; 95.4% CI, 0.47–0.98, 
in resectable NSCLCs. This meta-analysis evaluated 13 randomized trials; P=.0179). In the chemo/RT group, 3% (3/100) of patients died, whereas 
the HR suggests that overall survival in the preoperative chemotherapy 4% (4/100) of patients died in the RT group. Grade 3 to 4 hematologic 
arm is longer than the surgery alone arm (HR, 0.84; 95% CI, 0.77–0.92; P effects occurred at a greater rate in the chemo/RT arm than in the RT 
= .0001).625 These results are similar to those reported in another alone arm, including leucopenia (61 [63.5%] vs. none), neutropenia (55 
meta-analysis (HR, 0.89; 95% CI, 0.81–0.98; P = .02).626 The benefit from [57.3%] vs. none), and thrombocytopenia (28 [29.2%] vs. 2 [2.0%]). 
preoperative chemotherapy is similar to that attained with postoperative Long-term follow-up data show that overall survival is improved in elderly 
chemotherapy.626,632,663  patients receiving chemo/RT versus RT alone (HR, 0.743; 95% CI, 0.552–
0.998; P = .0239).688 A study reported that patients with N2 disease and 
Chemoradiation: Trial Data  an R0 resection had improved survival with postoperative chemotherapy 
The major controversies in NSCLC relate to the management of patients followed by postoperative RT (ie, sequential chemoradiation) compared 
with stage IIIA disease (see the Role of Surgery in Patients with Stage IIIA with postoperative concurrent chemoradiation (median overall survival, 
(N2) NSCLC in Principles of Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for 58.8 vs. 40.4 months, respectively; P < .001).499 However, there was no 
NSCLC). All 3 treatment modalities—surgical resection, chemotherapy, difference in overall survival when patients with N2 disease and positive 
and radiation—may be used when treating stage III disease. The ongoing margins had postoperative sequential chemoradiation compared with 
debate centers on which modalities to use and in what sequence.678-682 For postoperative concurrent chemoradiation (median overall survival, 42.6 vs. 
patients with unresectable stage IIIA or stage IIIB disease, combined 38.5 months, respectively; P = .42). Although the optimal sequence is not 
modality therapy (chemoradiation) is more efficacious than radiation established, postoperative RT is generally administered after adjuvant 
alone.678,679,681-683 Concurrent chemoradiation is more efficacious than chemotherapy or concurrently for positive resection margins.402,404,405,689  
sequential chemoradiation.634-637,684 However, concurrent chemoradiation 
has a higher rate of grade 3 or 4 esophagitis than sequential Concurrent chemoradiation regimens that may be used for all histologies 
chemoradiation. Selection of patients should be based not only on the for initial treatment include cisplatin/etoposide and carboplatin/paclitaxel 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-32 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
(see Chemotherapy Regimens Used with Radiation Therapy in the NCCN patients received adjuvant durvalumab after treatment with concurrent 
Guidelines for NSCLC).463,634,636,690-695 For nonsquamous NSCLC, chemoradiation (1–42 days). Most patients were current or former 
additional concurrent chemoradiation regimens may be used including smokers and did not have EGFR mutations; their PD-L1 status was 
carboplatin/pemetrexed and cisplatin/pemetrexed.696-698 A weekly typically less than 25% or unknown. An updated analysis of this trial 
paclitaxel/carboplatin regimen is another chemoradiation option.463 The reported that overall survival was increased after durvalumab 
different options for preoperative, definitive, and postoperative consolidation when compared with placebo (not reached [34.7 months– 
chemotherapy/RT are described in detail in the algorithm. For the 2020 not reached] vs. 28.7 months [22.9– not reached]; stratified HR for death, 
update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified all the 0.68; 99.73% CI, 0.47–0.997; P = .0025).699 The overall survival rate at 
systemic therapy regimens and decided that the following concurrent 24 months was 66.3% for durvalumab (95% CI, 61.7%–70.4%) versus 
chemoradiation regimens are preferred for patients with NSCLC: 1) 55.6% for placebo (95% CI, 48.9%–61.8%).699 The PFS was 17.2 
carboplatin/pemetrexed and cisplatin/pemetrexed for nonsquamous months for durvalumab (95% CI, 13.1–23.9) versus 5.6 months for 
NSCLC only; and 2) carboplatin/paclitaxel and cisplatin/etoposide for all placebo (95% CI, 4.6–7.7). Overall survival data after 3 years continue to 
histologies. For the 2020 update (Version 1), the panel also deleted the show improvement with durvalumab.700 The median time to death or 
cisplatin/vinblastine concurrent regimen, because this regimen is rarely distant metastasis was significantly longer with durvalumab when 
used in the United States. Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel expanded compared with placebo (28.3 months vs. 16.2 months; P < .001). 
the list of regimens for sequential chemoradiation to include regimens Patients receiving durvalumab had a higher ongoing response at 18 
that are also used for preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy (ie, months when compared with placebo (73.5% vs. 52.2%). Durvalumab 
cisplatin combined with pemetrexed [nonsquamous only], docetaxel, was effective in patients with both squamous and nonsquamous NSCLC. 
etoposide, gemcitabine, or vinorelbine; carboplatin combined with Grade 3 or 4 adverse events occurred at a similar rate in both groups of 
paclitaxel) and also added 2 new carboplatin regimens for patients with patients (durvalumab, 30.5% vs. placebo, 26.1%). Pneumonia was the 
comorbidities or those not able to tolerate cisplatin, including 1) most common grade 3 or 4 adverse event (durvalumab, 4.4% vs. 
carboplatin/gemcitabine; and 2) carboplatin/pemetrexed (nonsquamous placebo, 3.8%). Durvalumab did not compromise patient-reported 
only).  outcomes.701  
Durvalumab  The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends durvalumab (category 1) as 
Durvalumab is a human ICI antibody that inhibits PD-L1 (see PD-L1 consolidation immunotherapy (regardless of PD-L1 status) for eligible 
Expression Levels and Immunotherapies in this Discussion).309-311,313 patients (PS 0–1) with unresectable stage III NSCLC who have not 
PACIFIC, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared adjuvant treatment with progressed after treatment with 2 or more cycles of definitive concurrent 
durvalumab (also known as consolidation immunotherapy in this setting) platinum-based chemoradiation based on this trial and FDA approval.313,699 
versus placebo in eligible patients with unresectable stage III NSCLC It is important to note that adjuvant durvalumab is not recommended for 
(PS 0–1) who had not progressed after treatment with 2 or more cycles patients who have had surgical resection. In addition, durvalumab is used 
of definitive concurrent platinum-based chemoradiation.313,699 Eligible as adjuvant treatment in this setting; it is not being used as second-line 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-33 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
therapy. Durvalumab may be used as consolidation immunotherapy after similar objective response rates and survival.705,706 The platinum-doublet 
treatment with any of the concurrent chemoradiation regimens described regimens differ slightly for toxicity, convenience, and cost; thus, clinicians 
in the algorithm (eg, cisplatin/etoposide, carboplatin/paclitaxel) (see can individualize therapy for their patients.707-710 Carboplatin-based 
Chemotherapy Regimens Used With Radiation Therapy in the NCCN regimens include gemcitabine/carboplatin, docetaxel/carboplatin, and 
Guidelines for NSCLC). The panel noted that a few patients with stage II pemetrexed/carboplatin;673,711-713 non–platinum-based regimens such as 
NSCLC were included in the PACIFIC trial, which used the older AJCC gemcitabine/vinorelbine and gemcitabine/docetaxel are also options.714-717 
staging (7th edition).  The prognosis for stage IV inoperable lung cancer remains poor if patients 
are not candidates for targeted therapy.  
If patients will be receiving durvalumab but have not received full-dose 
chemotherapy concurrently with RT, the NCCN NSCLC Panel does not In the United States, frequently used initial cytotoxic regimens for stage IV 
recommend an additional 2 cycles of full-dose chemotherapy (ie, nonsquamous NSCLC include: 1) cisplatin (or carboplatin)/pemetrexed; or 
consolidation chemotherapy) based on concerns that adding consolidation 2) carboplatin/paclitaxel with (or without) bevacizumab.690,718,719 
chemotherapy will increase the risk of pneumonitis if patients are also Gemcitabine plus cisplatin (or carboplatin) is often used for patients with 
receiving durvalumab. Durvalumab should be discontinued for patients stage IV squamous cell NSCLC.704,709,718,719 These chemotherapy 
with severe or life-threatening pneumonitis and should be withheld or regimens are recommended based on phase 3 randomized trials (eg, 
discontinued for other severe or life-threatening immune-mediated cisplatin/pemetrexed, carboplatin/paclitaxel [with or without bevacizumab], 
adverse events when indicated (see prescribing information). If patients gemcitabine/cisplatin) (see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic 
will not be receiving durvalumab because of medical contraindications or Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).704,720 A phase 3 randomized 
other reasons, consolidation chemotherapy is an option after concurrent trial suggests that conventional cytotoxic agents should not be continued 
chemoradiation if patients have not received full-dose chemotherapy beyond 4 to 6 cycles of therapy; however, many patients assigned to a 
concurrently with RT.  longer duration of therapy did not receive the planned number of cycles 
(see Maintenance Therapy in this Discussion).721,722  
Chemotherapy: Trial Data  
Patients with metastatic (stage IV) NSCLC who have a good PS benefit A phase 3 randomized trial assessed cisplatin/pemetrexed versus 
from chemotherapy, usually with a platinum-based regimen, which was cisplatin/gemcitabine as first-line therapy in patients with stage IIIB or IV 
used for many years before the advent of targeted therapy and NSCLC.704 For patients with adenocarcinoma who received 
immunotherapy regimens.645-647 Combination chemotherapy regimens cisplatin/pemetrexed, median overall survival was 12.6 months compared 
produce 1-year survival rates of 30% to 40% and are more efficacious with 10.9 months for those receiving cisplatin/gemcitabine (HR, 0.84; 95% 
than single agents.668,673,702-704 However, survival rates are higher for CI, 0.71–0.99; P = .03). In contrast, for patients with squamous cell 
patients with stage IV NSCLC who are eligible for either the newer NSCLC who received cisplatin/pemetrexed, overall survival was 9.4 
targeted therapy or immunotherapy regimens.10-17 Phase 3 randomized versus 10.8 months for those receiving cisplatin/gemcitabine (HR, 1.23; 
trials have shown that many of the platinum-doublet combinations yield 95% CI, 1.00–1.51; P = .05). Patients with nonsquamous NSCLC 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-34 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
receiving cisplatin/pemetrexed have less toxicity when compared with bevacizumab to carboplatin/paclitaxel in patients younger than 75 years 
those receiving cisplatin/gemcitabine.723 Median overall survival was but no benefit in those older than 75 years.729 
similar for both regimens when histologies were combined (8.6 vs. 9.2 
months, respectively; HR, 1.08; 95% CI, 0.81–1.45; P = .586).  Note that albumin-bound paclitaxel (also known as nab-paclitaxel) can be 
substituted for paclitaxel or docetaxel for patients: 1) who have 
TAX 326, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed docetaxel plus cisplatin experienced hypersensitivity reactions after receiving paclitaxel or 
(or carboplatin) versus vinorelbine/cisplatin as first-line therapy for patients docetaxel despite premedication; or 2) in whom premedications (ie, 
with stage IIIB or IV nonsmall cell lung cancer.673 Docetaxel plus cisplatin dexamethasone, H2 blockers, H1 blockers) to prevent hypersensitivity are 
was associated with similar overall survival (11.3 vs. 10.1 months (P contraindicated.730,731 A phase 3 randomized trial in patients with 
=.044; HR, 1.183 [97.2% CI, 0.989–1.416]) and better response rate advanced NSCLC reported that an albumin-bound paclitaxel/carboplatin 
(31.6%) when compared with cisplatin/vinorelbine (24.5%; P =.029); regimen is associated with less neurotoxicity and improved response rate, 
docetaxel/cisplatin was associated with better quality of life and was better when compared with the control arm of paclitaxel/carboplatin.732 Based on 
tolerated.  the trial and the FDA approval, the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends an 
albumin-bound paclitaxel/carboplatin regimen as initial cytotoxic therapy 
Many oncologists use pemetrexed-based regimens for stage IV for patients with advanced NSCLC and good PS.  
adenocarcinomas (if patients are not candidates for targeted therapy or 
PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors), because taxane-based regimens are associated Chemotherapy is recommended for patients with stage IV NSCLC and 
with more toxicity (eg, neurotoxicity).704,724 There are no agents for the negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, or BRAF 
prevention of peripheral neuropathy, and few agents are useful for genetic variants; PD-L1 expression less than 1%; and contraindications to 
treatment.725 The POINTBREAK trial showed that PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors. Recommended chemotherapy regimens are 
carboplatin/pemetrexed/bevacizumab is a reasonable option for patients based on PS and include platinum agents (eg, cisplatin, carboplatin), 
with metastatic NSCLC and confirmed that taxane-based regimens are taxanes (eg, paclitaxel, albumin-bound paclitaxel [also known as 
more toxic than pemetrexed-based regimens.726 The POINTBREAK trial nab-paclitaxel], docetaxel), vinorelbine, etoposide, pemetrexed, and 
also showed that both regimens are similar in regard to overall survival gemcitabine (see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in 
rates; therefore, oncologists may return to using taxane-based regimens, the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). To clarify use of systemic therapy, the 
which are well established. A retrospective cohort study suggests that the NCCN Guidelines list all of the combination systemic therapy regimens 
addition of bevacizumab to carboplatin/paclitaxel does not increase and single agents that are recommended for patients with metastatic 
survival in older patients (≥65 years) with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC depending on histology and PS (see Systemic Therapy for 
NSCLC.727 However, another retrospective cohort study reported Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  
increased survival in older patients.728 A combined analysis of the ECOG 
4599 and POINTBREAK trials found a survival benefit with the addition of For patients with advanced NSCLC who have a PS of 2, platinum-based 
combinations and a few single-agent chemotherapy agents are 
recommended in the NCCN Guidelines; cisplatin-based regimens are not 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-35 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
recommended in this setting.204 For nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC The initial cytotoxic systemic therapy regimens were recently revised by 
NOS, single-agent chemotherapy includes gemcitabine, pemetrexed, or deleting options that are less effective, more toxic, and/or infrequently 
taxanes; combination chemotherapy regimens include used in the United States based on each panel member’s experience and 
carboplatin/paclitaxel or carboplatin/pemetrexed.733-735 Patients with a PS data generated by surveying the NCCN NSCLC Panel (see the NCCN 
of 2 are often just treated with single-agent chemotherapy because of Guidelines with Evidence Blocks™ for NSCLC, available at 
concerns about toxicity.736 Treatment with carboplatin/pemetrexed www.NCCN.org). For patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC and 
increased median overall survival when compared with pemetrexed alone NSCLC NOS, panel members deleted carboplatin/vinorelbine, 
(9.3 vs. 5.3 months, P = .001) in patients with a PS of 2; however, 4 cisplatin/vinorelbine, etoposide, irinotecan, and vinorelbine. For patients 
treatment-related deaths occurred in the carboplatin/pemetrexed with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC, panel members deleted 
arm.733,737 carboplatin/etoposide, carboplatin/vinorelbine, 
cisplatin/gemcitabine/necitumumab, cisplatin/vinorelbine, etoposide, 
For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference irinotecan, and vinorelbine.  
stratified all the systemic therapy regimens. The newer 
chemotherapy/pembrolizumab regimens are preferred for eligible patients The NCCN NSCLC Panel voted unanimously to delete the 
with metastatic NSCLC who do not have contraindications to necitumumab/cisplatin/gemcitabine regimen from the NCCN Guidelines for 
immunotherapy and are not candidates for targeted therapy (see Systemic patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC. This decision reflects the 
Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for fact that the NCCN NSCLC Panel feels the addition of necitumumab to the 
NSCLC and Pembrolizumab in this Discussion). For patients with regimen is not beneficial based on toxicity, cost, and limited improvement 
metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC and PS 0 to 1 who have in efficacy when compared with cisplatin/gemcitabine. A phase 3 
contraindications to immunotherapy, the panel decided that the following randomized trial only showed a slight improvement in overall survival (11.5 
chemotherapy regimens are “useful in certain circumstances,” including months; 95% CI, 10.4–12.6; vs. 9.9 months; 95% CI, 8.9–11.1).738 The 
1) carboplatin with paclitaxel (or albumin-bound paclitaxel), docetaxel, stratified HR was only 0.84 (95% CI, 0.74–0.96; P = .01). In addition, there 
etoposide, gemcitabine, or pemetrexed; all are category 1; 2) cisplatin were more grade 3 or higher adverse events in patients receiving the 
with paclitaxel (or albumin-bound paclitaxel), docetaxel, etoposide, necitumumab regimen (388 [72%] of 538 patients) than in patients 
gemcitabine, or pemetrexed; all are category 1; 3) bevacizumab with receiving only the gemcitabine/cisplatin (333 [62%] of 541). Although it has 
carboplatin and either paclitaxel or pemetrexed; and 4) gemcitabine with been suggested that adding necitumumab to cisplatin/gemcitabine adds 
either docetaxel or vinorelbine. The panel also preference stratified the value and is cost-effective, the NCCN NSCLC Panel does not agree.739  
regimens for patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC and PS 2; 
carboplatin/pemetrexed is preferred for patients with adenocarcinoma. Targeted Therapies  
The regimens for patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC have Specific targeted therapies are available for the treatment of eligible 
also been preference stratified.  patients with metastatic NSCLC.158,740,741 Afatinib, alectinib, brigatinib, 
ceritinib, crizotinib, erlotinib, gefitinib, osimertinib, dacomitinib, dabrafenib, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-36 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
trametinib, entrectinib, larotrectinib, and lorlatinib are oral TKIs. the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel emphasizes that 
Bevacizumab and ramucirumab are recombinant monoclonal antibodies clinicians should obtain molecular testing results for actionable biomarkers 
that target the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) or VEGF before administering first-line therapy, if clinically feasible. Therefore, the 
receptor, respectively. Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody that targets panel deleted “or unknown” regarding test results for actionable molecular 
EGFR. Erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, and dacomitinib inhibit EGFR biomarkers before administering PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors. At a minimum, 
sensitizing mutations; osimertinib inhibits both EGFR sensitizing mutations EGFR and ALK status should be known before starting first-line systemic 
and T790M. Crizotinib inhibits ALK fusions, ROS1 fusions, and MET therapy, if clinically feasible; however, it is ideal if ROS1 and BRAF status 
tyrosine kinases (ie, high-level MET amplification, METex14 skipping are also known. If it is not feasible to do molecular testing, then patients 
mutation). Ceritinib inhibits ALK fusions and IGF-1 receptor. Alectinib are treated as though they do not have driver oncogenes.  
inhibits ALK and RET fusions.742 Brigatinib inhibits various ALK fusions 
and other targets.743 Lorlatinib inhibits ALK and ROS1 fusions.275,277,744,745 VEGF or VEGF Receptor Inhibitors  
Dabrafenib inhibits BRAF V600E mutations; trametinib inhibits MEK; both Bevacizumab 
agents inhibit different kinases in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway.168,169 
Entrectinib and larotrectinib inhibit TRK fusion proteins.284,286,287 Bevacizumab is a recombinant monoclonal antibody that targets VEGF. 
 ECOG 4599, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed bevacizumab added to 
Capmatinib inhibits several MET tyrosine kinases including METex14 paclitaxel/carboplatin versus chemotherapy alone in patients with 
skipping mutations.294 Selpercatinib, pralsetinib, cabozantinib, and recurrent or advanced nonsquamous NSCLC (stage IIIB–IV).720
vandetanib inhibit RET rearrangements.152,303,304,746  In the 
 Other targeted bevacizumab/chemotherapy group, median survival was 12.3 months 
therapies are being developed (see Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel versus 10.3 months with chemotherapy alone (HR for death, 0.79; 
Therapies for Patients with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for P=0.003). Clinically significant bleeding occurred more often with 
NSCLC). Flare phenomenon may occur in some patients who discontinue bevacizumab/chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone (4.4% vs. 0.7%, 
targeted therapies for EGFR, ALK, or ROS1 genetic variants. If disease 
flare occurs, then the targeted therapies should be restarted.747-750 respectively; P < .001). Fifteen treatment-related deaths were reported 
  with bevacizumab/chemotherapy. 
It is important to note that targeted therapies are recommended for Bevacizumab may be added to carboplatin/paclitaxel (category 1), 
patients with metastatic NSCLC and specific oncogenic drivers, carboplatin/pemetrexed, or cisplatin/pemetrexed. For the 2020 update 
independent of PD-L1 levels. Patients with metastatic NSCLC and PD-L1 (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the systemic 
expression levels of 1% or more—but who also have a targetable driver therapy regimens and decided that these specific bevacizumab plus 
oncogene molecular variant (eg, EGFR, ALK, ROS1)—should receive chemotherapy first-line therapy options are “useful in certain 
first-line targeted therapy for that oncogene and not first-line ICIs, because circumstances” for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC based on 
targeted therapies yield higher response rates (eg, osimertinib, 80%) than clinical data and the FDA approval.720,752 These bevacizumab plus 
ICIs (poor response rates) in the first-line setting, targeted therapy is better 
tolerated, and these patients are unlikely to respond to ICIs.249,321-323,751 chemotherapy regimens are an option for patients with PS 0 to 1, 
 For nonsquamous NSCLC or NSCLC NOS, negative test results for EGFR, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-37 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, or BRAF variants, PD-L1 expression less 11.0–13.5) with erlotinib alone (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.46–0.76; P < .0001). 
than 1%, and contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors (see Serious adverse events (grade 3–4) occurred in 72% (159/221) of patients 
Sensitizing EGFR Mutation Positive/First-Line Therapy or ALK receiving erlotinib/ramucirumab (including hypertension) versus 54% 
Positive/First-Line Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  (121/225) in those receiving erlotinib alone (including increased alanine 
aminotransferase [ALT]). One treatment-related death occurred in a 
Bevacizumab in combination with a PD-L1 inhibitor plus chemotherapy patient receiving erlotinib/ramucirumab. For the 2020 update (Version 2), 
(eg, ABCP) is a first-line therapy option (category 1, other recommended) the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends erlotinib/ramucirumab as a 
regardless of PD-L1 expression for patients with PS 0 to 1; nonsquamous first-line therapy option for patients with EGFR-positive metastatic 
NSCLC or NSCLC NOS; negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, NSCLC (category 2A, other recommended intervention) based on clinical 
METex14 skipping, or BRAF variants; and no contraindications to PD-1 or data.758  
PD-L1 inhibitors or bevacizumab (see Atezolizumab in this Discussion). 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends that bevacizumab biosimilars may Subsequent Therapy 
be used in any of the systemic therapy regimens containing bevacizumab REVEL, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed ramucirumab/docetaxel 
(eg, carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus bevacizumab) that are used for eligible versus docetaxel alone in patients with metastatic NSCLC that had 
patients with metastatic NSCLC based on clinical data and FDA progressed.759 The median overall survival was 10.5 months for 
approvals.753-757 To receive treatment with bevacizumab and ramucirumab/docetaxel versus 9.1 months for docetaxel alone (HR, 0.86; 
chemotherapy, patients must meet the following criteria: nonsquamous 95% CI, 0.75–0.98; P < .023). More than 70% of patients had grade 3 or 
NSCLC and no recent history of hemoptysis. Any regimen with a high risk higher adverse events in both groups (79% for ramucirumab/docetaxel vs. 
for thrombocytopenia—and, therefore, possible bleeding—should be used 71% for docetaxel alone). Adverse events of special concern with 
with caution when combined with bevacizumab. Bevacizumab is not ramucirumab/docetaxel therapy include risk for severe hemorrhage, grade 
recommended for patients with squamous cell NSCLC.  3 to 4 gastrointestinal bleeding, gastrointestinal perforation or fistula, 
impaired wound healing, and poorly controlled hypertension. There were 
Ramucirumab  16 deaths from grade 3 or worse pulmonary hemorrhage and other 
Ramucirumab is a recombinant monoclonal antibody that targets VEGF adverse events in the REVEL trial: 8 deaths in the ramucirumab/docetaxel 
receptors. arm and 8 deaths in the docetaxel alone arm. The NCCN NSCLC Panel 
First-Line Therapy recommends ramucirumab/docetaxel (category 2A) as a subsequent 
therapy option for patients with metastatic NSCLC, regardless of histology, 
RELAY, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line therapy with that has progressed after first-line chemotherapy based on the REVEL trial 
ramucirumab/erlotinib versus erlotinib alone in patients with advanced and the FDA approval.759,760  
NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR mutations.758 PFS was 19.4 months (95% 
CI, 15.4–21.6) with ramucirumab/erlotinib versus 12.4 months (95% CI,  
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-38 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
 duration of response was longer with osimertinib compared with erlotinib 
or gefitinib (median response, 17.2 vs. 8.5 months). Only 6% (17/279) of 
Oral TKIs that Inhibit EGFR Mutations patients receiving osimertinib had CNS progression events when 
Osimertinib compared with 15% (42/277) of those receiving erlotinib or gefitinib. Grade 
Osimertinib (AZD9291) is an oral TKI that inhibits both EGFR sensitizing 3 or higher adverse events were reported in 34% (94/279) of patients 
mutations and T790M. As previously mentioned, EGFR sensitizing receiving osimertinib and 45% (124/277) of patients receiving erlotinib or 
mutations include Exon19del and L858R as well as other rarer mutations gefitinib. An updated analysis showed that median overall survival was 
(see EGFR Mutations in this Discussion). Both mutations are associated 38.6 months with osimertinib (95% CI, 34.5–41.8) compared with 31.8 
with sensitivity to the small-molecule oral EGFR TKIs, such as osimertinib, months (95% CI, 26.6–36.0) for either erlotinib or gefitinib (HR, 0.8; 95% 
erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, and dacomitinib.200 The NCCN NSCLC Panel CI, 0.64–1.0; P = .046).10  
recommends EGFR mutation testing (category 1) in certain patients with The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends osimertinib as a preferred first-line 
metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of several agents therapy option for patients with metastatic NSCLC who have sensitizing 
for patients with EGFR mutations and on the FDA approvals (see EGFR mutations based on the phase 3 trial and FDA approval.10,321 
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines Osimertinib is a category 1 (preferred) recommended option if an EGFR 
for NSCLC).321,761 EGFR T790M is a mutation associated with acquired mutation is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
resistance to first-line therapy with EGFR TKIs and has been reported in pembrolizumab/chemotherapy), and osimertinib is a category 2A 
about 60% of patients with disease progression after initial response to (preferred) option if an EGFR mutation is discovered during first-line 
sensitizing EGFR TKIs.197,218-224 Most patients with sensitizing EGFR systemic therapy.10 For patients receiving first-line ICIs with or without 
mutations and metastatic NSCLC typically progress after about 9.7 to 13 chemotherapy, oncologists should be aware of the long half-life of the ICIs 
months of therapy with erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib.207,212,219,226 Data show and potential adverse effects when combining ICIs with osimertinib.763-765  
that patients receiving osimertinib as first-line therapy have PFS of about 
19 months.321,762 Flare phenomenon may occur in some patients who Subsequent Therapy 
discontinue EGFR TKIs. If disease flare occurs, then the EGFR TKIs AURA3, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed osimertinib versus 
should be restarted.747-750  platinum-pemetrexed chemotherapy in patients with EGFR 
T790M-positive metastatic NSCLC who had progressed on first-line 
First-Line Therapy erlotinib, gefitinib, or afatinib. PFS was longer with osimertinib compared 
FLAURA, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed first-line therapy with with chemotherapy (10.1 vs. 4.4 months; HR, 0.30; 95% CI, 0.23–0.41; P 
osimertinib compared with either erlotinib or gefitinib in patients with < .001).226 PFS was also longer in patients with CNS metastases who 
metastatic NSCLC and EGFR mutations regardless of T790M received osimertinib versus chemotherapy (8.5 vs. 4.2 months; HR, 0.32; 
status.10,321,761,762 PFS was longer with osimertinib (18.9 months; 95% CI, 95% CI, 0.21–0.49). In addition, the objective response rate was increased 
15.2–21.4) compared with either erlotinib or gefitinib (10.2 months; 95% with osimertinib (71%; 95% CI, 65%–76%) compared with chemotherapy 
CI, 9.6–11.1; HR, 0.46; 95% CI, 0.37–0.57; P < .001]). The median 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-39 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
(31%; 95% CI, 24%–40%) (odds ratio for objective response, 5.39; 95% ramucirumab or bevacizumab), gefitinib, afatinib, or dacomitinib based on 
CI, 3.47–8.48; P < .001). The disease control rate was about 93% with data showing an improvement.226,769-772  
osimertinib (95% CI, 90%–96%) and about 74% with chemotherapy (95% 
CI, 66%–81%). Patients receiving osimertinib had fewer grade 3 or higher Updated data from the BLOOM study suggest that osimertinib is beneficial 
adverse events compared with those receiving chemotherapy (23% vs. for patients with EGFR mutations (regardless of T790M status) who have 
47% [63/279 vs. 64/136]). There were 4 fatal events with osimertinib progressive leptomeningeal disease.773 In the BLOOM study (n = 32), 23 
(respiratory failure [2 patients], pneumonitis, and ischemic stroke) and one patients receiving osimertinib (160 mg once daily) had brain imaging 
with chemotherapy (hypovolemic shock).  assessment; 10 had radiologic improvement and 13 had stable disease. At 
a 12-week neurologic assessment, 88% (7/8) of symptomatic patients had 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends osimertinib (category 1) as a improved and one had stable disease. Of 15 asymptomatic patients, 87% 
subsequent therapy option for patients with metastatic EGFR (13/15) remained asymptomatic.773 Several studies suggested that pulse 
T790M-positive NSCLC who have progressed on EGFR TKIs (including erlotinib is beneficial for patients with EGFR mutations who have 
erlotinib with or without ramucirumab or bevacizumab) based on the phase progressive leptomeningeal disease.774-776 In one study of high-dose 
3 randomized trial and FDA approval [see Second-Line and Beyond erlotinib, neurologic symptoms and PS improved in 50% (6/12) and 33% 
(Subsequent) Systemic Therapy in this Discussion].226 For patients with (4/12) of patients, respectively; median survival was 6.2 months (95% CI, 
sensitizing EGFR mutations who progress during or after first-line therapy 2.5–8.5).776 Based on these studies, the NCCN NSCLC Panel feels that 
with osimertinib, recommended subsequent therapy depends on whether osimertinib (regardless of T790M status) can be considered for patients 
the progression is asymptomatic or symptomatic and includes: 1) with EGFR mutations who have progressive leptomeningeal disease. For 
considering local therapy (eg, SABR or surgery); 2) continuing osimertinib; the 2020 update (Version 1), pulse erlotinib was deleted as an option for 
or 3) a first-line systemic therapy regimen for metastatic NSCLC (such as progressive leptomeningeal disease because osimertinib is a better option 
carboplatin/paclitaxel). There are no data to support using erlotinib (with or in this setting.  
without ramucirumab or bevacizumab), gefitinib, afatinib, or dacomitinib 
after progression on first-line therapy with osimertinib. T790M can be Erlotinib and Gefitinib 
assessed using an FDA-approved test or other validated laboratory test Erlotinib and gefitinib are oral TKIs that inhibit sensitizing EGFR mutations. 
done in a CLIA-approved laboratory. Data suggest that plasma genotyping IPASS, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed first-line therapy with 
(also known as plasma testing or liquid biopsy) may be considered at gefitinib alone versus carboplatin/paclitaxel in Asian patients with 
progression instead of tissue biopsy to detect whether patients have EGFR-positive metastatic NSCLC.212 Patients with sensitizing EGFR 
T790M; however, if plasma testing is negative, then tissue biopsy is mutations who received gefitinib had longer PFS (24.9% vs. 6.7%), 
recommended.766-768 The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends increased response rate (71.2% vs. 47.3%), and improved quality of life 
osimertinib (category 1) for patients with T790M who have symptomatic with fewer side effects (eg, neutropenia) compared with 
brain metastases after progression on erlotinib (with or without carboplatin/paclitaxel.212 Updated results from the IPASS trial showed that 
overall survival was similar in patients receiving gefitinib or chemotherapy 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-40 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
regardless of sensitizing EGFR mutation status.777 These results probably multiple systemic symptomatic lesions (see Continuation of Targeted 
occurred because patients who had been assigned to first-line Therapy After Progression on Initial Therapy in this Discussion).  
chemotherapy were able to receive TKIs as subsequent therapy if they 
were found to have sensitizing EGFR mutations.  WJOG 5108L, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed gefitinib versus 
erlotinib for patients with advanced lung cancer who had been previously 
EURTAC, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed first-line therapy with treated with chemotherapy; most patients (72%) were positive for EGFR 
erlotinib versus chemotherapy in European patients with metastatic mutations.782 The median PFS was 8.3 months for gefitinib versus 10.0 
NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR mutations.207 PFS was longer and response months for erlotinib in patients positive for EGFR mutations (HR, 1.093; 
rate was increased for those receiving erlotinib compared with 95% CI, 0.879–1.358; P = .424). The main grade 3 or 4 toxicities 
chemotherapy.207 For erlotinib, the median PFS was 9.7 months (95% CI, included rash (gefitinib: 2.2% vs. erlotinib: 18.1%) and increases in 
8.4–12.3) compared with 5.2 months (95% CI, 4.5–5.8) for chemotherapy ALT/aspartate aminotransferase (AST) levels (gefitinib: 6.1%/13.0% vs. 
(HR, 0.37; 95% CI, 0.25–0.54; P < .0001). Fewer patients receiving erlotinib: 2.2%/3.3%).  
erlotinib had severe adverse events or died when compared with those 
receiving chemotherapy. The FDA has approved the use of erlotinib as An analysis of 5 clinical trials in patients, mainly from the Western 
first-line therapy in patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations.778 hemisphere, (n = 223) with advanced NSCLC (stage IIIB or IV) found that 
Previously, erlotinib was commonly used in the United States in patients those with sensitizing EGFR mutations who received TKIs had a 67% 
with sensitizing EGFR mutations because of restrictions on the use of response rate and an overall survival of about 24 months.783 The TORCH 
gefitinib. However, gefitinib was re-approved by the FDA based on a trial suggested that EGFR mutation testing should be done in patients with 
phase 4 study and is available in the United States.157,779  advanced nonsquamous NSCLC.784 Survival was longer in patients with 
wild-type EGFR who received first-line chemotherapy compared with 
CALGB 30406, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line erlotinib those who received erlotinib first followed by subsequent chemotherapy 
monotherapy versus erlotinib plus carboplatin plus paclitaxel in patients (11.6 vs. 8.7 months). The OPTIMAL trial reported that PFS was 
(mainly Caucasian) with advanced NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR increased in patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations who received 
mutations.780 Erlotinib monotherapy was associated with fewer side effects erlotinib.210,211 EGFR TKIs are recommended in patients with metastatic 
in patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations compared with NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR mutations, because quality of life is 
erlotinib/chemotherapy. Thus, it is appropriate to interrupt or complete improved when compared with chemotherapy. Erlotinib and gefitinib are 
planned chemotherapy and switch to EGFR TKI therapy in patients found orally active TKIs that are very well tolerated by most patients.785,786  
to have sensitizing EGFR mutations during first-line chemotherapy (see 
EGFR Mutation Positive/First-Line Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for RELAY, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line therapy with 
NSCLC).781 The NCCN Guidelines do not recommend adding EGFR TKIs erlotinib/ramucirumab versus erlotinib alone in patients with advanced 
to current chemotherapy based on this CALGB study.780 EGFR TKIs may NSCLC and sensitizing EGFR mutations.758 PFS was 19.4 months (95% 
be continued in patients who have progressed if patients do not have CI, 15.4–21.6) with erlotinib/ramucirumab versus 12.4 months (95% CI, 
11.0–13.5) with erlotinib (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.46–0.76; P < .0001). The 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-41 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
overall response rate was similar (erlotinib/ramucirumab: 76% versus data showing the efficacy of several agents for patients with EGFR 
erlotinib alone: 75%). Serious adverse events (grade 3–4) occurred in mutations and on the FDA approvals (see Principles of Molecular and 
72% (159/221) of patients receiving erlotinib/ramucirumab (including Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).207,212 For the 
hypertension) versus 54% (121/225) in those receiving erlotinib alone 2020 update (Version 2), the NCCN NSCLC Panel added 
(including increased ALT). One treatment-related death occurred in a erlotinib/ramucirumab as a first-line therapy option for patients with 
patient receiving erlotinib/ramucirumab.  EGFR positive metastatic NSCLC (category 2A, other recommended 
intervention) based on clinical data.758 The panel also added 
NEJ026, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line erlotinib plus erlotinib/bevacizumab as a first-line therapy option for patients with 
bevacizumab versus erlotinib alone in patients with EGFR-positive EGFR positive metastatic NSCLC (category 2B, useful in certain 
advanced nonsquamous NSCLC.787 At interim analysis, PFS was 16.9 circumstances) based on clinical data.787  
months (95% CI, 14.2–21.0) for erlotinib/bevacizumab versus 13.3 months 
(95% CI, 11.1–15.3) for erlotinib alone (HR, 0.605; 95% CI, 0.417–0.877; Afatinib  
P = .016). Grade 4 adverse events occurred in 8% (9/112) of patients Afatinib is a second-generation oral TKI that irreversibly inhibits the 
receiving erlotinib/bevacizumab (including neutropenia, hepatic ErbB/HER family of receptors including EGFR and ERBB2.790,791 
dysfunction) versus 4% (5/114) of patients receiving erlotinib alone LUX-Lung 3, a phase 3 randomized trial, reported that first-line therapy 
(hepatic dysfunction); no treatment-related deaths were reported.  with afatinib improved PFS when compared with cisplatin/pemetrexed in 
patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma who have sensitizing EGFR 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends erlotinib and gefitinib as first-line mutations (11.1 vs. 6.9 months, P = .001).206 The NCCN NSCLC Panel 
therapy options in patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC who recommends afatinib as a first-line therapy option in patients with 
have known active sensitizing EGFR mutations (regardless of their PS) metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC who have sensitizing EGFR mutations 
based on these trials and FDA approvals (see Sensitizing EGFR Mutation based on the clinical trial and FDA approval (see the NCCN Guidelines for 
Positive in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).105,212,788,789 Erlotinib and NSCLC).206,790,792-794 Afatinib is a category 1 (other recommended) option if 
gefitinib are category 1 (other recommended) options if an EGFR mutation an EGFR mutation is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy 
is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, (eg, pembrolizumab/chemotherapy). Afatinib is a category 2A option if an 
pembrolizumab/chemotherapy), and they are category 2A options if an EGFR mutation is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. For the 
EGFR mutation is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified 
2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens and decided that afatinib is an “other 
the systemic therapy regimens and decided that erlotinib and gefitinib recommended” option; osimertinib is the preferred option in this setting. 
are “other recommended” options for patients with EGFR Afatinib may also be continued in patients who have progressed if patients 
mutation--positive metastatic NSCLC; osimertinib is the preferred option do not have multiple systemic symptomatic lesions (see Continuation of 
in this setting. The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends EGFR mutation Targeted Therapy After Progression on Initial Therapy in this 
testing (category 1) in certain patients with metastatic NSCLC based on Discussion).200 However, afatinib is not recommended as subsequent 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-42 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
therapy based on a phase 3 randomized trial showing low response rates; gefitinib as first-line therapy for patients with sensitizing EGFR-positive 
it is less efficacious and safe compared to other available options [see metastatic NSCLC.798,799 Patients with brain metastases were not eligible 
Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) Systemic Therapy in this for enrollment. PFS was increased in patients receiving dacomitinib (14.7 
Discussion].795  months; 95% CI, 11.1–16.6) compared with those receiving gefitinib (9.2 
months; 95% CI, 9.1–11.0). Serious adverse events related to treatment 
A phase 2B trial assessed afatinib compared with gefitinib for first-line were reported in 21 (9%) patients given dacomitinib and in 10 (4%) 
therapy in patients with metastatic adenocarcinoma and sensitizing EGFR patients given gefitinib. Treatment-related deaths included 2 patients in the 
mutations.796 The PFS was essentially the same in patients receiving dacomitinib group (one related to untreated diarrhea and one to untreated 
afatinib when compared with those receiving gefitinib (median PFS, 11.0 cholelithiasis/liver disease) and one patient in the gefitinib group (related 
months [95% CI, 10.6–12.9] with afatinib vs. 10.9 months [9.1–11.5] with to sigmoid colon diverticulitis/rupture complicated by pneumonia). An 
gefitinib; HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.57–0.95; P = .017). These slight PFS updated analysis reported that the median overall survival was 34.1 
differences are not clinically relevant. Updated results indicate that overall months (95% CI, 29.5–37.7) in patients receiving dacomitinib compared 
survival was not significantly different between afatinib and gefitinib (27.9 with 26.8 months (95% CI, 23.7–32.1) in those receiving gefitinib (HR, 
vs. 24.5 months [HR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.66‒1.12; P = .2580]).797 Patients 0.760; 95% CI, 0.582–0.993; two-sided P = .044).798  
receiving afatinib had more serious treatment-related side effects when 
compared with those receiving gefitinib (11% [17/160] for afatinib vs. 4% The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends dacomitinib as a first-line 
[7/159] for gefitinib). One patient receiving gefitinib died from treatment option for patients with sensitizing EGFR-positive metastatic 
treatment-related hepatic and renal failure; other deaths were not NSCLC based on these clinical trial data and the FDA approval.770,798 
considered to be related to treatment (9% vs. 6% [15/160 vs. 10/159]). Dacomitinib is a category 1 (other recommended) option if an EGFR 
More patients receiving afatinib had diarrhea (13% vs. 1%), whereas more mutation is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
patients receiving gefitinib had elevations in liver enzyme levels (0% vs. pembrolizumab/chemotherapy); dacomitinib is a category 2A option if an 
9%). The NCCN Guidelines do not state that afatinib is more efficacious EGFR mutation is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. For the 
than gefitinib (see the NCCN Guidelines with Evidence Blocks™ for 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified 
NSCLC, available at www.NCCN.org).782 Afatinib is rated as slightly less the systemic therapy regimens and decided that dacomitinib is an “other 
safe than erlotinib or gefitinib (ie, a rating of 3 for afatinib vs. 4 for erlotinib recommended” option; osimertinib is the preferred option in this setting.  
and gefitinib) (see the NCCN Guidelines with Evidence Blocks™ for 
NSCLC, available at www.NCCN.org). Oral TKIs that Inhibit ALK and ROS1 Fusions 
Dacomitinib Alectinib 
Like afatinib, dacomitinib is a second-generation oral TKI that irreversibly Alectinib is an oral TKI that inhibits ALK and RET rearrangements (also 
known as fusions) but not ROS1 fusions.742
inhibits ErbB/HER receptors including EGFR, HER1, HER2, and HER4.   
ARCHER 1050, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared dacomitinib versus  
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-43 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
alectinib (9%) because of an adverse event when compared with crizotinib 
First-Line Therapy (20%).  
ALEX, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed first-line therapy with 
alectinib versus crizotinib in 303 patients with ALK-positive advanced The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends alectinib as a first-line therapy 
NSCLC including those with asymptomatic CNS disease.251 Disease option for patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical 
progression or death occurred in fewer patients receiving alectinib (41% trial data and the FDA approval.251,800,801 Panel members voted that 
[62/152]; median follow-up of 18.6 months) when compared with crizotinib alectinib is the preferred first-line therapy option for patients with 
(68% [102/151]; median follow-up of 17.6 months). The HR was 0.47 (95% metastatic NSCLC who are positive for ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC 
CI, 0.34–0.65; P < .001) for disease progression or death. PFS was based on these trials. Alectinib is a category 1 (preferred) option if an ALK 
significantly increased with alectinib (68.4%; 95% CI, 61.0%–75.9%) rearrangement is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
versus crizotinib (48.7%; 95% CI, 40.4%–56.9%). The median PFS was pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy); alectinib is a category 2A (preferred) 
not reached for alectinib (95% CI, 17.7–not reached) when compared with option if an ALK rearrangement is discovered during first-line systemic 
crizotinib at 11.1 months (95% CI, 9.1–13.1). Fewer patients receiving therapy. Brigatinib, ceritinib, and crizotinib are also recommended as 
alectinib had CNS progression (12% [18/152]) versus crizotinib (45% first-line therapy options in patients with ALK-positive NSCLC (see 
[68/151]). Response rates were 83% (126/152) in the alectinib group Brigatinib and Crizotinib and Ceritinib in this Discussion). For the 2020 
versus 75% (114/151) in the crizotinib group (P = .09). Patients receiving update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the 
alectinib had fewer grade 3 to 5 adverse events when compared with first-line therapy regimens and decided that brigatinib and ceritinib are 
crizotinib (41% [63/152] vs. 50% [75/151], respectively) even though “other recommended” options for patients with ALK-positive metastatic 
patients received alectinib for a longer duration than crizotinib (median, NSCLC; the panel decided that crizotinib is useful in certain 
17.9 vs. 10.7 months). Fewer deaths were reported with alectinib (3.3% circumstances. 
[5/152]) versus crizotinib (4.6% [7/151]); 2 treatment-related deaths were 
reported in the crizotinib arm and none in the alectinib arm.  Subsequent Therapy 
Phase 2 trials assessed alectinib in patients with ALK-positive metastatic 
J-ALEX, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed first-line therapy with NSCLC who had progressed on crizotinib; overall response rates were 
alectinib versus crizotinib in 207 Japanese patients with ALK-positive 48% to 50%.156,802 In the larger trial (138 patients), patients on alectinib 
advanced NSCLC.800 Median PFS was not reached with alectinib (95% CI, had a response rate of 50% (95% CI, 41%–59%), and median duration of 
20.3 months–not reached) versus 10.2 months (95% CI, 8.2–12.0) with response of 11.2 months (95% CI, 9.6–not reached).156 For CNS disease, 
crizotinib (HR, 0.34; 99.7% CI, 0.17–0.71; stratified log-rank P < .0001). the control rate was 83% (95% CI, 74%–91%) and the median duration of 
Grade 3 or 4 adverse events were less frequent with alectinib (26% response was 10.3 months (95% CI, 7.6–11.2). Of 84 patients with 
[27/103]) when compared with crizotinib (52% [54/104]); adverse events baseline CNS metastases, 23 (27%) had a complete CNS response to 
did not lead to death in either group. Fewer patients stopped taking alectinib. Of 23 patients with baseline CNS metastases and no previous 
brain RT, 10 (43%) had a complete CNS response to alectinib. Most 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-44 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
adverse events were only grade 1 to 2 (constipation, fatigue, and response rate (74% vs. 45%; P < .001), lung cancer symptoms, and 
peripheral edema); 4 patients (3%) had grade 3 dyspnea. One death due quality of life when compared with chemotherapy (pemetrexed with either 
to intestinal perforation may have been related to alectinib. The NCCN cisplatin or carboplatin).252 Crizotinib yields high response rates (>60%) 
NSCLC Panel recommends alectinib as a subsequent therapy option for when used in patients with advanced NSCLC who have ALK fusions, 
patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who have progressed after crizotinib including those with brain metastases.107,252,809-811 Patients whose disease 
based on these trials and the FDA approval.156,801,802 Patients who do not responds to crizotinib may have rapid improvement in symptoms; median 
tolerate crizotinib may be switched to alectinib, ceritinib, or brigatinib (if not time to progression on crizotinib is about 7 months to 1 year.812,813 
previously given).  Crizotinib has relatively few side effects (eg, eye disorders, edema, 
transient changes in renal function).810,814,815 However, some patients have 
Crizotinib had pneumonitis; crizotinib should be discontinued in these patients.805 
Crizotinib inhibits ALK fusions, ROS1 fusions, and some MET tyrosine Patients who do not tolerate crizotinib may be switched to alectinib, 
kinases (high-level MET amplification or METex14 skipping mutation); it is ceritinib, or brigatinib (if not previously given) unless an adverse side effect 
approved by the FDA for patients with metastatic NSCLC who have ALK requiring discontinuation has occurred (eg, pneumonitis).  
gene fusions (ie, ALK-positive disease) or ROS1 fusions.150,252,289,803-807 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 4 agents for patients with The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends crizotinib as a first-line treatment 
ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC—alectinib, crizotinib, brigatinib, and option for patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical 
ceritinib—based on clinical trial data and FDA approvals (see the Alectinib, trial data and the FDA approval.252 Crizotinib is a category 1 (useful in 
Brigatinib, Ceritinib, and ALK Rearrangements in this Discussion and the certain circumstances) option if an ALK rearrangement is discovered 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
crizotinib and entrectinib (both are preferred) for patients with pembrolizumab/chemotherapy); it is a category 2A option if an ALK 
ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC based on trial data and FDA approvals rearrangement is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. For the 
(see Entrectinib in this Discussion). The NCCN NSCLC Panel 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified 
recommends ALK and ROS1 testing in certain patients with metastatic the first-line therapy regimens and decided that crizotinib is useful in 
NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of several agents for certain circumstances for patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC. 
patients with ALK and ROS1 fusions and on the FDA approvals (see Alectinib is the preferred first-line therapy option for patients with 
Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC; brigatinib and ceritinib are “other 
for NSCLC).  recommended” options for ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC.  
ALK Rearrangements Crizotinib may also be continued for patients with ALK fusions who have 
Randomized phase 3 trials have compared crizotinib with first-line progressed on crizotinib, depending on the type of progression.804 
chemotherapy (PROFILE 1014) and with subsequent chemotherapy Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel deleted the option to continue 
(PROFILE 1007).7,252,808 First-line therapy with crizotinib improved PFS, crizotinib for patients with brain metastases who had progressed after 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-45 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
first-line therapy with crizotinib; the other ALK inhibitors are recommended The EUCROSS study reported crizotinib yielded an overall response rate 
options in this setting because they have better CNS response rates (ie, of 70% (21/30; 95% CI, 51%–85%) in 30 patients with ROS1-positive 
ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib).816-819 Subsequent therapy with crizotinib advanced NSCLC.273 Adverse events related to treatment occurred in 97% 
improved PFS (7.7 vs. 3.0 months; P < .001) and response rate (65% vs. (33/34) of patients. A retrospective European study in patients (n = 30 
20%; P < .001) when compared with single-agent therapy (either evaluable) with stage IV NSCLC and ROS1 fusions also assessed 
docetaxel or pemetrexed) in patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who had crizotinib.150 There were 5 complete responses (overall response rate, 
progressed after first-line chemotherapy and had not previously received 80%; disease control rate, 86.7%). The median PFS was 9.1 months. 
ALK inhibitors.804 Many patients (n = 26) received pemetrexed (either alone or in 
combination with platinum and either before or after crizotinib) and had a 
ROS1 Rearrangements response rate of 57.7% and a median PFS of 7.2 months. The NCCN 
Crizotinib is also very effective for patients with ROS1 fusions with NSCLC Panel recommends ROS1 testing in certain patients with 
response rates of about 70% to 80% including complete responses (see metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of several agents 
other section on ROS1 Rearrangements in this Discussion).150,151,269,273,274 for patients with ROS1 fusions and on the FDA approval (see Principles of 
A phase 2 trial assessed crizotinib in 127 East Asian patients with Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for 
ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC who had received 3 or fewer lines of NSCLC).150,151,269 Crizotinib is a category 2A option (preferred) if a ROS1 
therapy. The overall response rate was 72% (95% CI, 63%–79%) with 17 rearrangement is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
complete responses; the median duration of response was 19.7 months pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy); crizotinib is a category 2A option 
(95% CI, 14.1–not reached). The median PFS was 15.9 months (95% CI, (preferred) if an ROS1 rearrangement is discovered during first-line 
12.9–24.0).274  systemic therapy. The NCCN NSCLC Panel decided that crizotinib and 
entrectinib are the preferred agents for first-line therapy in patients with 
PROFILE 1001, a phase 2 study, assessed crizotinib in 50 patients with ROS1 fusions, compared with ceritinib, because they are better tolerated, 
advanced NSCLC who were positive for ROS1 fusions.151 Crizotinib have been assessed in more patients, and are approved by the FDA (see 
yielded an objective response rate of 72% (95% CI, 58%–84%); there Ceritinib and Entrectinib in this Discussion). Lorlatinib is recommended in 
were 3 complete responses and 33 partial responses.151 The median patients with ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC whose disease becomes 
duration of response was 17.6 months (95% CI, 14.5–not reached), and resistant to crizotinib, ceritinib, or entrectinib (see Lorlatinib in this 
the median PFS was 19.2 months (95% CI, 14.4–not reached). Updated Discussion).277  
results from PROFILE 1001 reported an overall response rate of 72% 
(95% CI, 58%–83%) with crizotinib including 6 confirmed complete Ceritinib 
responses in 53 patients with ROS1-positive advanced NSCLC.14 The Ceritinib is an oral TKI that inhibits ALK and ROS1 fusions.820  
median overall survival was 51.4 months (95% CI, 29.3–not reached). No 
grade 4 or higher treatment-related adverse events were reported.   
 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-46 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
months [95% CI, 4.1–6.9] for ceritinib vs. 1.6 months [95% CI, 1.4–2.8] for 
ALK Rearrangements  chemotherapy; HR, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.36–0.67; P < .0001). Serious adverse 
ASCEND-4, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed ceritinib versus events were reported in 43% (49/115) of patients receiving ceritinib versus 
platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy for patients with 32% (36/113) of those receiving chemotherapy. ASCEND-2, a phase 2 
ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC.253 PFS was improved when using study, assessed ceritinib in patients who had previously received at least 2 
ceritinib compared with platinum-based chemotherapy; the median PFS or more treatments, had progressed on crizotinib, and had brain 
was 16.6 months (95% CI, 12.6–27.2) for ceritinib and 8.1 months (95% metastases.817 The overall response rate was 38%; the duration of 
CI, 5.8–11.1) for chemotherapy (HR, 0.55; 95% CI, 0.42–0.73; P < response was 9.7 months (95% CI, 7.1–11.1).817 The intracranial overall 
.00001). For ceritinib, common adverse events included diarrhea (85% response rate was 45.0% (95% CI, 23.1%–68.5%), the NCCN NSCLC 
[160/189] of patients), nausea (69% [130/189]), vomiting (66% [125/189]), Panel recommends ceritinib as a subsequent therapy option (category 
and an increase in ALT (60% [114/189]). For chemotherapy, common 2A) for patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who have progressed after 
adverse events included nausea (55% [97/175 patients]), vomiting (36% crizotinib based on clinical trial data and the FDA approval.817,818,821-823 
[63/175]), and anemia (35% [62/175]).  Patients who do not tolerate crizotinib may be switched to alectinib, 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends ceritinib as a first-line therapy ceritinib, or brigatinib (if not previously given). 
option for patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical ROS1 Rearrangements 
trial data and the FDA approval.253,821-823 Ceritinib is a category 1 (other A phase 2 trial assessed ceritinib as first-line therapy in patients (n = 28 
recommended) option if an ALK rearrangement is discovered before giving evaluable) with NSCLC and ROS1 fusions.820 One complete response and 
first-line systemic therapy (eg, pembrolizumab/chemotherapy); ceritinib is 19 partial responses (overall response rate, 62% [95% CI, 45%–77%]) 
a category 2A option if an ALK rearrangement is discovered during were reported in patients receiving ceritinib. PFS was 19.3 months (95% 
first-line systemic therapy. For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN CI, 1–37) for crizotinib-naıve patients and 9.3 months (95% CI, 0–22) for 
NSCLC Panel preference stratified the first-line therapy regimens and all patients. The median overall survival was 24 months (95% CI, 5–43). 
decided that ceritinib and brigatinib are “other recommended” options for The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends ceritinib (category 2A) for patients 
patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC; alectinib is the preferred with ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC based on this trial. Ceritinib is a 
first-line therapy option for ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC. The panel category 2A (other recommended) option if an ROS1 rearrangement is 
also decided that crizotinib is useful in certain circumstances.  discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy (eg, 
ASCEND-5, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed subsequent therapy pembrolizumab/chemotherapy); ceritinib is a category 2A option if a ROS1 
with ceritinib versus chemotherapy (with pemetrexed or docetaxel) in rearrangement is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. For the 
patients with advanced ALK-positive NSCLC who had previously received 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified 
at least 2 or more treatments (including chemotherapy and crizotinib) and the first-line therapy regimens and decided that ceritinib is an “other 
had progressed.818 Patients receiving ceritinib had a significant recommended” option for patients with ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC. 
improvement in median PFS when compared with chemotherapy (5.4 The NCCN NSCLC Panel decided that crizotinib and entrectinib are the 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-47 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
preferred agents for first-line therapy for patients with advanced NSCLC 
and ROS1 fusions because they are better tolerated, have been assessed Subsequent Therapy 
in more patients, and are approved by the FDA (see Crizotinib and ALTA, a phase 2 study, assessed 2 different doses of brigatinib: 90 mg 
Entrectinib in this Discussion). Lorlatinib is recommended in patients with (arm A) or 180 mg (arm B) every day—in patients with ALK-positive 
ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC whose disease becomes resistant to metastatic NSCLC who had progressed on or were intolerant to 
crizotinib, ceritinib, or entrectinib.277  crizotinib.824,825 The overall response rates were 45% (97% CI, 34%–56%) 
and 54% (97% CI, 43%–65%) in arms A and B, respectively. Many 
Brigatinib  patients had brain metastases (71% and 67%, respectively). The 
Brigatinib is an oral TKI that inhibits ALK fusions.  intracranial overall response rates were 42% (11/26) and 67% (12/18), 
respectively, in patients with measureable brain metastases. The median 
First-Line Therapy  PFS was 9.2 months (95% CI, 7.4–15.6) and 12.9 months (95% CI, 11.1–
ALTA-1L, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed brigatinib versus crizotinib not reached), respectively. Grade 3 or higher adverse events included 
as first-line therapy for patients with ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC.254 hypertension (6% and 6%, respectively) and pneumonia (3% and 5%, 
PFS was increased in patients receiving brigatinib (67%; 95% CI, 56%– respectively). The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends brigatinib (category 
75%) versus those receiving crizotinib (43%; 95% CI, 32%–53%) (HR for 2A) as a subsequent therapy option for patients with ALK-positive NSCLC 
disease progression or death, 0.49; 95% CI, 0.33–0.74; P < .001). who have progressed after crizotinib based on clinical trial data and the 
Intracranial response was also increased with brigatinib (78%; 95% CI, FDA approval.824,825 Patients receiving brigatinib should be carefully 
52%–94%) versus crizotinib (29%; 95% CI, 11%–52%). The NCCN monitored for respiratory symptoms, especially during the first week of 
NSCLC Panel recommends brigatinib as a first-line therapy option for treatment. Patients who do not tolerate crizotinib may be switched to 
patients with ALK-positive NSCLC based on clinical trial data and FDA alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib (if not previously given).  
approval.254 Brigatinib is a category 1 (other recommended) option if an 
ALK rearrangement is discovered before giving first-line systemic therapy Lorlatinib  
(eg, pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy); brigatinib is a category 2A option Lorlatinib is an oral third-generation TKI that targets ALK and ROS1 
if an ALK rearrangement is discovered during first-line systemic therapy. tyrosine kinases and has good CNS penetration; it inhibits a broad range 
For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference of ALK resistance mutations that develop after treatment with first- and 
stratified the first-line therapy regimens and decided that brigatinib and second-generation ALK inhibitors.744,745  
ceritinib are “other recommended” options for patients with ALK-positive 
metastatic NSCLC; alectinib is the preferred first-line therapy option for Subsequent Therapy 
ALK-positive metastatic NSCLC. The panel decided that crizotinib is useful Data show that lorlatinib is effective in select patients who have 
in certain circumstances.  progressed after treatment with ALK inhibitors, including those with CNS 
metastases.744,745 A phase 2 trial assessed lorlatinib in patients with 
 ALK-positive or ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC who had progressed 
after ALK inhibitor therapy; many patients had asymptomatic CNS 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-48 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
metastases.744 In patients who had received at least one previous ALK Panel also recommends lorlatinib (category 2A) as a subsequent therapy 
inhibitor, objective responses were achieved in 47% of patients (93/198; option for select patients with ROS1-positive NSCLC who have 
95% CI, 39.9%–54.2%); there were 4 complete responses and 89 partial progressed after treatment with crizotinib, entrectinib, or ceritinib.277  
responses. In those with measurable baseline CNS lesions, an objective 
intracranial response was observed in 63% of patients (51/81; 95% CI, Oral TKIs That Inhibit BRAF Mutations 
51.5%–73.4%). Lorlatinib was effective in patients who had received up to Dabrafenib and Trametinib 
3 previous ALK inhibitors. Grade 3 to 4 adverse events included Dabrafenib and trametinib inhibit kinases in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK 
hypercholesterolemia and hypertriglyceridemia (43/275 [16%] for both). pathway.168,169 Dabrafenib inhibits BRAF harboring V600E mutations; 
Serious treatment-related adverse events occurred in 7% of patients trametinib inhibits MEK 1/2, which is downstream of BRAF signaling.  
(19/275) including cognitive effects in 1% (2/275); the cognitive effects 
resulted in permanent discontinuation of lorlatinib. No treatment-related A phase 2 trial assessed first-line combination therapy with 
deaths were reported. dabrafenib/trametinib for 36 patients with metastatic NSCLC and BRAF 
V600E mutations.826 The overall response rate was 64% (23/36; 95% CI, 
A phase 1 to 2 trial assessed lorlatinib in patients with ROS1-positive 46%–79%); there were 2 complete responses. The median PFS was 10.9 
metastatic NSCLC.277 Many patients (58% [40/69]) had previously months (95% CI, 7.0–16.6). Many patients (69% [25/36]) had one or more 
received crizotinib; some patients were TKI naïve (30% [21/69]). Objective grade 3 or 4 adverse events. Serious adverse events included increased 
responses were achieved in 35% (14/40) of patients who had previously ALT (14% [5/36]), increased AST (8% [3/36]), pyrexia (11% [4/36]), and 
received crizotinib and 62% (13/21) of TKI-naïve patients. An intracranial decreased ejection fraction (8% [3/36]).  
response was observed in 50% (12/24) of patients who had previously 
received crizotinib and 64% (7/11) of TKI-naïve patients. Serious A phase 2 study assessed the dabrafenib/trametinib regimen as 
treatment-related adverse events occurred in 7% (5/69) of patients; no subsequent therapy in 57 patients with advanced NSCLC and BRAF 
treatment-related deaths were reported.  V600E mutations who had progressed on chemotherapy.168,827 Patients 
had a response rate of 63% (36/57) with dabrafenib/trametinib; however, 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends lorlatinib (category 2A) as a considerable toxicity was reported. PFS was 9.7 months (6.9–19.6). 
subsequent therapy option for select patients with ALK-positive NSCLC Serious adverse events occurred in 56% (32/57) of patients, including 
who have progressed after treatment with ALK inhibitors based on clinical pyrexia, anemia, confusional state, hemoptysis, hypercalcemia, and 
trial data and FDA approval.277,745 Lorlatinib is a subsequent therapy option cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. Grade 3 to 4 adverse events 
for select patients with ALK-positive NSCLC after progression on either included neutropenia in 9% of patients (5/57), hyponatremia in 7% (4/57), 
alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib depending on the type of progression. and anemia in 5% (3/57). Four patients died during the study, but these 
Lorlatinib is also a subsequent therapy option for select patients with deaths were not felt to be related to treatment (deaths were due to 
ALK-positive NSCLC after progression on crizotinib followed by retroperitoneal hemorrhage, subarachnoid hemorrhage, respiratory 
progression on either alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib. The NCCN NSCLC distress, or severe disease progression). Preliminary data from an 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-49 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
updated analysis of this phase 2 trial reported that patients receiving Oral TKIs that Inhibit NTRK and ROS1 Fusions 
dabrafenib/trametinib had a median overall survival of 18.2 months (95% 
CI, 14.3–not reached).828 Larotrectinib 
NTRK gene fusions encode TRK fusion proteins that act as oncogenic 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends BRAF mutation testing in certain drivers for various solid tumors, including lung, salivary gland, thyroid, and 
patients with metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the efficacy of sarcoma (see NTRK Gene Fusions in this Discussion).284 Larotrectinib is 
several agents for patients with BRAF mutations and on the FDA an oral TKI that inhibits TRK fusion proteins across a diverse range of 
approvals (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the solid tumors in younger and older patients with unresectable or metastatic 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).826-829 The NCCN NSCLC Panel disease; thus, larotrectinib is referred to as an age- and tumor-agnostic 
recommends combination therapy with dabrafenib/trametinib as preferred therapy.284 A study in 55 patients with NTRK gene fusion–positive disease 
first-line therapy for patients with metastatic NSCLC and BRAF V600E across a range of solid tumors showed that larotrectinib yielded an overall 
mutations based on these trials and the FDA approval.826,828,829 response rate of 75% (95% CI, 61%–85%).284 An updated analysis of this 
Single-agent therapy with dabrafenib or vemurafenib is also an option study showed that 90% of patients were still alive after 1 year, 18% of 
(other recommended) for patients with BRAF V600E mutations who do not patients had a complete response, 69% of patients were still responding, 
tolerate combination therapy with dabrafenib/trametinib.169,828,830 Other and 58% of patients had not progressed.287 An additional 35 patients with 
systemic therapy regimens are also recommended (useful in certain NTRK gene fusion–positive disease had an overall response rate of 
circumstances) for patients with BRAF V600E mutations; the same initial 74%.287 Fewer than 3% of patients had adverse events of grade 3 to 4.  
systemic regimens used for patients with metastatic NSCLC may be used 
(eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel). For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends larotrectinib (category 2A) as 
NSCLC Panel preference stratified the first-line therapy regimens for either a first-line or subsequent therapy option for patients with NTRK 
patients with BRAF V600E mutation-positive metastatic NSCLC and gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC based on these data and the FDA 
approval.284,287
decided that: 1) dabrafenib/trametinib is the preferred option; 2) dabrafenib  For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
or vemurafenib are “other recommended” options; and 3) other systemic preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens and decided that 
therapy regimens (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel) are useful in certain larotrectinib and entrectinib are preferred first-line therapy options for 
circumstances. If patients with BRAF V600E mutations have not received NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC. Other systemic therapy 
dabrafenib/trametinib as first-line therapy and have progressed after regimens are also recommended (useful in certain circumstances) as 
first-line systemic therapy regimens (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel), then the first-line therapy options for patients with NTRK gene fusions; the same 
NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends dabrafenib/trametinib as subsequent initial systemic regimens used for patients with metastatic NSCLC may be 
therapy.168,827  used (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel). Larotrectinib may be used as subsequent 
therapy if it or entrectinib were not previously given as first-line therapy for 
 NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC. 
 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-50 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
responses). Grade 3 adverse events with entrectinib across a range of 
Entrectinib solid tumors included anemia and increased weight. Grade 4 adverse 
Entrectinib is an oral TKI that inhibits several tyrosine kinases including events occurred in 3 patients (ie, increased AST, increased ALT, blood 
ROS1 and TRK (see ROS1 rearrangements and NTRK Gene Fusions in uric acid, hyperuricemia). Nervous system disorders were the most 
this Discussion).276,831 Entrectinib has been assessed in several phase 1 common serious treatment-related adverse event (4% [3/68] and 3% 
and 2 trials in patients with ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC (phase 2 [10/355]). No treatment-related deaths were reported.  
STARTRK-2 trial, phase 1 STARTRK-1 trial, and phase 1 ALKA-372-001 
trial).268,832 Pooled data from these 3 trials in 53 patients with The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends entrectinib as a first-line therapy 
ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC receiving first-line entrectinib showed an option for patients with ROS1-positive metastatic NSCLC (category 2A; 
overall response rate of 77% (41/53; 95% CI, 64%–88%; 3 complete preferred) and also recommends entrectinib as either a first-line or 
responses).268 The intracranial overall response rate was 55% (95% CI, subsequent therapy option for NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic 
32%–77%; 4 complete responses, 7 partial responses).268,832 In the larger NSCLC (category 2A) based on these data and the FDA 
ROS1 population (n = 134), grade 3 to 4 adverse events were seen in approval.268,275,276,832 For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC 
34% of patients. Fifteen patients had serious adverse events such as Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens and decided 
nervous system disorders (4 patients [3%]) and cardiac disorders (3 that entrectinib and larotrectinib are preferred first-line therapy options for 
patients [2%]). No treatment-related deaths were reported. Although NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC. Other systemic therapy 
entrectinib has better CNS penetration than crizotinib, it is more toxic.  regimens are also recommended (useful in certain circumstances) for 
patients with NTRK gene fusions; the same initial systemic regimens used 
Similar to larotrectinib, entrectinib inhibits TRK fusion proteins across a for patients with metastatic NSCLC may be used (eg, 
range of solid tumors in young and older patients with unresectable or carboplatin/paclitaxel). Subsequent therapy with lorlatinib is also 
metastatic disease; thus, entrectinib is also an age- and tumor-agnostic recommended (category 2A) for select patients with ROS1-positive 
therapy. Entrectinib has been assessed in several phase 1 and 2 trials in metastatic NSCLC who have progressed after treatment with crizotinib, 
patients with NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC (phase 2 ceritinib, or entrectinib. Entrectinib may be used as subsequent therapy if it 
STARTRK-2 trial, phase 1 STARTRK-1 trial, and phase 1 ALKA-372-001 or larotrectinib were not previously given as first-line therapy for NTRK 
trial).268,286,832 Pooled data from these 3 trials in 10 patients with NTRK gene fusion–positive metastatic NSCLC. 
gene fusion–positive NSCLC showed that entrectinib yielded an overall 
response rate of 70% (95% CI, 35%–93%; 7/10: 7/7 adenocarcinoma Oral TKIs that Inhibit MET Exon 14 Skipping Mutations 
NSCLC, 0/3 squamous cell carcinoma, unclassified, or undifferentiated 
NSCLC); there was one complete response.275 Most patients (70%) with Capmatinib 
NTRK gene fusion–positive NSCLC had received one or more lines of Capmatinib is an oral TKI that selectively inhibits MET genomic 
previous therapy. In 6 patients with CNS disease, entrectinib yielded an alterations. Oncogenic driver genomic alterations in MET include 
intracranial response rate of 67% (4/6; 2 complete responses and 2 partial METex14 skipping mutations, MET gene copy number (GCN) gain or 
amplification, and MET protein overexpression (see MET Genomic 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-51 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Alterations in this Discussion). Capmatinib has been assessed in phase 1 panel decided that crizotinib is useful in certain circumstances as either a 
and 2 studies of patients with advanced NSCLC.294,833,834  first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option for METex14 skipping 
mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC (see next paragraph on Crizotinib).295 
GEOMETRY, a phase 2 study, assessed capmatinib in different cohorts of Other systemic therapy regimens are also recommended as useful in 
patients with MET genomic alterations, including those with METex14 certain circumstances for first-line therapy for patients with metastatic 
skipping mutations; patients had stage IIIB/IV NSCLC and were wild-type NSCLC who are positive for METex14 skipping mutation; these systemic 
for EGFR and ALK genomic alterations.294 Preliminary data from regimens include platinum doublets, such as carboplatin/paclitaxel. These 
GEOMETRY show that first-line therapy with capmatinib yielded an overall platinum doublets may be used as subsequent therapy for patients who 
response rate of 71.4% (95% CI, 51.3%–86.8%) in 28 patients with have progressed on capmatinib or crizotinib. Patients with METex14 
METex14 skipping mutations; the median PFS was 9.13 months (5.52– skipping mutations and high PD-L1 expression do not respond to 
13.9 months) for first-line therapy. Subsequent therapy with capmatinib immunotherapy, even those with high PD-L1 levels.249,293  
yielded an overall response rate of 39.1% (95% CI, 27.6%–51.6%) in 69 
patients with METex14 skipping mutations; the median PFS was 5.42 Crizotinib  
months (95% CI, 4.17–6.97 months) for subsequent therapy. Common Crizotinib is an oral TKI that inhibits some MET tyrosine kinases 
adverse events across all cohorts included peripheral edema (49%), (high-level MET amplification or METex14 skipping mutation), ALK 
nausea (43%), and vomiting (28%), but most events were grades 1 to 2. fusions, and ROS1 fusions; it is approved by the FDA for patients with 
Updated results from GEOMETRY suggest that capmatinib is effective for metastatic NSCLC who have ALK or ROS1 fusions. A phase 2 study 
patients with brain metastases.833 Of patients with brain metastases, 54% assessed crizotinib in 69 patients with advanced NSCLC who were 
(7/13) responded to capmatinib; 4 patients had a complete response in the positive for METex14 skipping mutations.295 The objective response rate 
brain. was 32% (95% CI, 21%–45%). Median PFS was 7.3 months (95% CI, 
5.4–9.1 months). For the 2020 update (Version 4), the NCCN NSCLC 
For the 2020 update (Version 4), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends Panel recommends crizotinib as a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy 
capmatinib as either a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option option (category 2A; useful in certain circumstances) for patients with 
(category 2A; preferred) for patients with metastatic NSCLC who are metastatic NSCLC who are positive for METex14 skipping mutations 
positive for METex14 skipping mutations based on preliminary data and based on this data.295 Crizotinib may be used as subsequent therapy if it 
the FDA approval.294,833 The NCCN NSCLC Panel also preference or capmatinib were not previously given as first-line therapy for METex14 
stratified regimens that are recommended for METex14 skipping skipping mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC. However, the panel voted 
mutations and decided that capmatinib is a preferred first-line therapy or that capmatinib is preferred in the first-line setting for METex14 skipping 
subsequent therapy option for METex14 skipping mutation–positive mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC (see previous paragraph on 
metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial data. Capmatinib may be used as Capmatinib).294  
subsequent therapy if it or crizotinib were not previously given as first-line 
therapy for METex14 skipping mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC. The 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-52 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Oral TKIs that Inhibit RET Rearrangements 56% responded to pralsetinib; 3 patients had an intracranial complete 
response. Grade 3 or higher adverse events with pralsetinib include anemia 
Selpercatinib (8%), neutropenia (10%), and hypertension (10%). Common adverse events 
Selpercatinib (LOXO-292) is an oral TKI that selectively inhibits RET with pralsetinib included increased AST levels (31%), increased ALT levels 
rearrangements. Libretto-001, a phase 1/2 study, assessed selpercatinib (21%), anemia (22%), hypertension (20%), constipation (21%), and 
in patients with metastatic NSCLC and RET rearrangements.303 neutropenia (19%). Only 4% of patients (5/132) had to stop taking pralsetinib 
Preliminary data from Libretto-001 show that first-line therapy with because of side effects.  
selpercatinib yielded an overall response rate of 85% (29/34; 95% CI, 
69%–95%). Second-line therapy with selpercatinib yielded an overall For the 2020 update (Version 7), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
response rate of 68% (71/105; 95% CI, 58%–76%); the median PFS was pralsetinib as a first-line or subsequent therapy option (category 2A; 
18.4 months (95% CI, 12.9–24.9). Of patients with brain metastases, 91% preferred) for patients with metastatic NSCLC who are positive for RET 
(10/11) responded to selpercatinib. Common adverse events with rearrangements based on this preliminary data and the FDA approval for  
selpercatinib include dry mouth (32%), diarrhea (31%), hypertension (29%), 
pralsetinib.302
and increased liver enzyme levels (27%). Only 1.7% of patients (9/531) had to  Pralsetinib may be used as subsequent therapy if it or other 
stop taking selpercatinib because of side effects.  RET inhibitors were not previously given as first-line therapy for RET 
rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC. 
For the 2020 update (Version 4), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
selpercatinib as a first-line or subsequent therapy option (category 2A; Cabozantinib and Vandetanib  
preferred) for patients with metastatic NSCLC who are positive for RET Cabozantinib and vandetanib are oral TKIs that inhibit RET 
rearrangements based on this preliminary data and the FDA approval for rearrangements but also inhibit other kinases. A phase 2 study assessed 
selpercatinib.303,833 Selpercatinib may be used as subsequent therapy if it cabozantinib in 26 patients.152,304,835 The overall response rate was 28% 
or other RET inhibitors were not previously given as first-line therapy for (95% CI, 12%–49%). Many patients (19 [73%]) needed dose reductions 
RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC.  because of adverse events. The most common grade 3 adverse events 
included lipase elevation (4 patients [15%]), increased ALT (2 [8%]), 
Pralsetinib decreased platelet count (2 [8%]), and hypophosphatemia (2 [8%]). The 
Pralsetinib is an oral TKI that selectively inhibits RET rearrangements. NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends cabozantinib as a first-line therapy or 
ARROW, a phase 1/2 study, assessed pralsetinib in patients with subsequent therapy option (category 2A; useful in certain circumstances) 
metastatic NSCLC and RET rearrangements.302 Preliminary data from for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC based on this 
ARROW show that first-line therapy with pralsetinib yielded an overall data.152,304  
response rate of 66% (19/29; 95% CI, 46%–82%); 10% of patients had a 
complete response. Second-line therapy with pralsetinib yielded an overall A phase 2 study assessed vandetanib in 18 patients with NSCLC with 
response rate of 55% (50/92; 95% CI, 45%–66%); 6% of patients had a RET rearrangements who had received 2 or more previous chemotherapy 
regimens.746,836
complete response. Nine patients had measurable brain metastases, and  The overall survival was 11.6 months and the PFS was 4.5 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-53 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
months. Partial remission (18%) was reported in 3 patients; stable disease EGFR Inhibitor: Monoclonal Antibody 
was reported in another 8 patients. The disease control rate was 65%. Six 
(33%) patients died within 3 months of enrollment of the study due to rapid Cetuximab 
tumor progression. The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends vandetanib as Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody that targets EGFR. FLEX, a large 
a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option (category 2B; as useful in phase 3 randomized trial, assessed cisplatin/vinorelbine with (or without) 
certain circumstances) for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC cetuximab for patients with advanced NSCLC; most patients had stage IV 
based on this data.746 Cabozantinib or vandetanib may be used as disease.837 Adding cetuximab was reported to slightly increase overall 
subsequent therapy if they or other RET inhibitors were not previously survival (11.3 vs. 10.1 months; HR for death, 0.87; 95% CI, 0.762–0.996; 
given as first-line therapy for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic P = .044). Patients receiving cetuximab had increased grade 4 events 
NSCLC. versus control (62% vs. 52%, P < .01); cetuximab was also associated 
with grade 2 acne-like rash.  
Preference Stratification 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the regimens that are The NCCN NSCLC Panel does not recommend the cetuximab plus 
recommended for RET rearrangements and decided that selpercatinib and cisplatin plus vinorelbine regimen based on the clinical data.837 The 
pralsetinib are preferred first-line therapy or subsequent therapy options benefits of this cetuximab-based regimen are very slight, it is a difficult 
for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial regimen to administer, and patients have poorer tolerance for this regimen 
data.302,303,833 The panel decided that cabozantinib (category 2A) and when compared with other regimens; for example, almost 40% of patients 
vandetanib (category 2B) are both useful in certain circumstances as have grade 4 neutropenia.643 Patients may also have comorbid conditions 
either first-line therapy or subsequent therapy options for RET that prevent them from receiving cisplatin such as poor kidney function. 
rearrangements based on clinical trial data 152,304,835 Selpercatinib, Cisplatin/vinorelbine with (or without) cetuximab is generally not used in 
the United States because of concerns about toxicity.643,661,837
pralsetinib, cabozantinib, or vandetanib may be used as subsequent  Although the 
therapy if they were not previously given as first-line therapy for RET FLEX trial results were reported to be statistically significant, they were not 
rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC. Other systemic therapy clinically significant.643 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recently deleted the 
regimens (category 2A; other recommended regimens) are also cisplatin/vinorelbine and carboplatin/vinorelbine regimens from the list of 
recommended as first-line therapy options for patients with metastatic recommended cytotoxic therapy options for patients with metastatic 
NSCLC who are positive for RET rearrangements; these systemic NSCLC with all histologies.  
regimens include platinum doublets, such as carboplatin/paclitaxel. These Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors  
platinum doublets may be used as subsequent therapy for patients who Human ICI antibodies inhibit the PD-1 receptor or PD-L1, which improves 
have progressed on selpercatinib, pralsetinib, cabozantinib, or vandetanib. antitumor immunity; PD-1 receptors are expressed on activated cytotoxic 
Patients with RET rearrangements have minimal response (6%) to T cells.309-311 ICIs (also known as immunotherapy or immuno-oncology [IO] 
immunotherapy.249 agents) are associated with a delay in benefit when compared with 
targeted therapy or cytotoxic chemotherapy. The single-agent 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-54 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
immunotherapy or combination immunotherapy/chemotherapy regimens The following content briefly summarizes the use of ICIs as first-line or 
are not recommended if patients have contraindications to subsequent therapy in eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC; detailed 
immunotherapy, which may include active or previously documented information, including clinical trial data, is provided in subsequent sections 
autoimmune disease, current use of immunosuppressive agents, or (see Pembrolizumab, Atezolizumab, and Nivolumab with or Without 
presence of an oncogene that would predict lack of benefit. Nivolumab Ipilimumab in this Discussion); durvalumab is discussed in a different 
and pembrolizumab inhibit PD-1 receptors;312,121 atezolizumab and section, because it is used for eligible patients with unresectable stage III 
durvalumab inhibit PD-L1.313,314  NSCLC (see Durvalumab in this Discussion).  
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends (category 1) IHC testing for PD-L1 Single-agent pembrolizumab is recommended (category 1; preferred) as 
expression before first-line treatment in all patients with metastatic NSCLC first-line therapy for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC regardless of 
based on the efficacy of pembrolizumab with or without chemotherapy histology, PD-L1 expression levels of 50% or more, and with negative test 
(see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, and BRAF V600E 
Guidelines for NSCLC and Pembrolizumab in this Discussion).315 Ideally, (specific molecular) variants. The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends 
PD-L1 expression levels are assessed before first-line therapy in patients single-agent pembrolizumab as a first-line therapy option in eligible 
with metastatic NSCLC, if clinically feasible. Every effort also needs to be patients with metastatic NSCLC regardless of histology, PD-L1 levels of 
made to assess for oncogenic driver variants for which targeted 1% to 49% (category 2B; useful in certain circumstances), and negative 
therapies are available (eg, EGFR mutations, ALK fusions). It is test results for specific molecular variants (see Pembrolizumab in this 
important to note that targeted therapies are recommended for patients Discussion).838 Combination therapy with pembrolizumab plus 
with metastatic NSCLC and specific oncogenic drivers, independent of chemotherapy is recommended (category 1; preferred) as a first-line 
PD-L1 levels. Patients with metastatic NSCLC and PD-L1 expression therapy option in eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC and negative test 
levels of 1% or more—but who also have a targetable driver oncogene results for specific molecular variants, regardless of PD-L1 expression 
molecular variant (eg, EGFR, ALK, ROS1)—should receive first-line levels. Combination therapy with the ABCP regimen is recommended 
targeted therapy for that oncogene and not first-line ICIs because (category 1; other recommended intervention) as a first-line therapy option 
targeted therapies yield higher response rates (eg, osimertinib, 80%) for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC and negative test results for 
than ICIs (poor response rates) in the first-line setting, targeted therapy specific molecular variants, regardless of PD-L1 expression levels. 
is better tolerated, and these patients are unlikely to respond to Maintenance immunotherapy is recommended, if tolerated, for 2 years for 
ICIs.249,321-323,751 For patients receiving first-line ICIs with or without all the first-line regimens. Durvalumab is recommended (category 1) as 
chemotherapy, oncologists should be aware of the long half-life of the consolidation immunotherapy by the NCCN NSCLC Panel for eligible 
ICIs and potential adverse effects when combining ICIs with patients with unresectable stage III NSCLC who have not progressed after 
osimertinib.763-765 treatment with definitive concurrent chemoradiation; clinical trial data and 
appropriate use for durvalumab are described in greater detail elsewhere 
(see Durvalumab in this Discussion).313  
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-55 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
If patients have progressed on PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor therapy (with or immune-mediated adverse events when indicated (see prescribing 
without chemotherapy), then switching to a different PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor information). Pseudoprogression has been reported; therefore, traditional 
is not recommended for subsequent therapy. Single-agent pembrolizumab RECIST criteria may not be applicable.843  
is recommended (category 1; preferred) as a subsequent therapy option 
for select patients with metastatic NSCLC and PD-L1 levels greater than Pembrolizumab 
1%; nivolumab or atezolizumab is recommended (category 1; preferred) Pembrolizumab is a human ICI antibody that inhibits PD-1 receptors, 
as a subsequent monotherapy option for select patients with metastatic which improves antitumor immunity.312,121 The NCCN NSCLC Panel 
NSCLC regardless of PD-L1 levels (see Pembrolizumab, Atezolizumab, recommends (category 1) IHC testing for PD-L1 expression before 
and Nivolumab with or Without Ipilimumab in this Discussion). Based on first-line treatment in all patients with metastatic NSCLC based on the 
data in the second-line setting, PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitor monotherapy efficacy of pembrolizumab (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker 
appears to be less effective in patients with EGFR mutations or ALK Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).315 The FDA has approved 
fusions regardless of PD-L1 expression levels.309,312,751,839,840 A small study a companion diagnostic biomarker test for assessing PD-L1 expression 
suggests that single-agent pembrolizumab is not effective as first-line and determining which patients are eligible for pembrolizumab therapy. 
therapy in patients with metastatic NSCLC and EGFR mutations, even Although it is not an optimal biomarker, PD-L1 expression is currently the 
those with PD-L1 levels more than 50%.322 Patients with ALK-positive best available biomarker to assess whether patients are candidates for 
NSCLC and very high PD-L1 expression levels do not respond to pembrolizumab.316,317 PD-L1 expression is continuously variable and 
pembrolizumab.751 In the trials assessing the efficacy of first-line therapy dynamic; thus, a cutoff value for a positive result is artificial. Patients with 
with pembrolizumab with (or without) chemotherapy, most of the patients PD-L1 expression levels just below and just above 50% will probably have 
were wild type for EGFR or ALK variants. Maintenance immunotherapy is similar responses.316 Unique anti-PD-L1 IHC assays have been developed 
recommended, if tolerated, until progression for all the subsequent therapy for each one of the different ICIs currently available.316,320 The definition of 
regimens.  a positive PD-L1 test result varies depending on which biomarker assay is 
used.320  
ICIs are associated with unique immune-mediated adverse events, such 
as endocrine disorders, that are not seen with traditional cytotoxic Ideally, PD-L1 expression levels are assessed before first-line therapy in 
chemotherapy; therefore, health care providers should be aware of the patients with metastatic NSCLC, if clinically feasible. Every effort also 
spectrum of potential immune-mediated adverse events, know how to needs to be made to assess for specific oncogenic driver variants for 
manage the adverse events, and educate their patients about possible which targeted therapies are available such as EGFR mutations and ALK 
side effects (see the NCCN Guidelines for the Management of variants. Plasma-based testing can be used to evaluate for EGFR 
Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities, available at www.NCCN.org).841,842 mutations and ALK fusions, although these assays are less sensitive than 
Pembrolizumab, atezolizumab, nivolumab, or durvalumab should be tissue assays. It is important to note that targeted therapies are 
discontinued for patients with severe or life-threatening pneumonitis and recommended for patients with metastatic NSCLC and specific oncogenic 
should be withheld or discontinued for other severe or life-threatening drivers, independent of PD-L1 levels. Patients with metastatic NSCLC and 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-56 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
PD-L1 expression levels of 1% or more—but who also have a targetable receiving pembrolizumab monotherapy compared with those receiving 
driver oncogene molecular variant (eg, EGFR, ALK, ROS1)—should chemotherapy (31.2% vs. 53.3%). Treatment-related deaths occurred in 
receive first-line targeted therapy for that oncogene and not first-line ICIs 1.3% (2/154) of patients receiving pembrolizumab monotherapy versus 
because targeted therapies yield higher response rates (eg, osimertinib, 2% (3/150) of patients receiving chemotherapy alone.  
80%) than ICIs (poor response rates) in the first-line setting, targeted 
therapy is better tolerated, and these patients are unlikely to respond to KEYNOTE-042, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared single-agent 
ICIs.249,321-324  pembrolizumab versus platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy 
for patients with advanced nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC and PD-L1 
Immune-mediated adverse events may occur with pembrolizumab.844-846 expression levels of 1% or more, but without EGFR mutations or ALK 
For patients with immune-mediated adverse events, intravenous fusions.838 Overall survival was longer in patients with PD-L1 levels of 50% 
high-dose corticosteroids should be administered based on the severity of or more who received single-agent pembrolizumab (20.0 months; 95% CI, 
the reaction (see the NCCN Guidelines for the Management of 15.4–24.9) compared with chemotherapy (12.2 months; 95% CI, 10.4–
Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities, available at www.NCCN.org). 14.2; HR, 0.69; 95% CI, 0.56–0.85; P = .0003). In a subgroup analysis, 
Pembrolizumab should also be discontinued for patients with severe or overall survival was similar in patients with PD-L1 levels of 1% to 49% who 
life-threatening pneumonitis and should be withheld or discontinued for received single-agent pembrolizumab (13.4 months; 95% CI, 10.7–18.2) 
other severe or life-threatening immune-mediated adverse events when compared with chemotherapy (12.1 months; 95% CI, 11.0–14.0) (HR, 
indicated (see prescribing information). 0.92; 95% CI, 0.77–1.11). Long-term data from KEYNOTE-001 show that 
5-year survival for patients with metastatic NSCLC is approximately 23% 
First-Line Monotherapy for patients who received first-line pembrolizumab monotherapy and 
KEYNOTE-024, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared single-agent 15.5% for patients who received subsequent pembrolizumab 
pembrolizumab versus platinum-based chemotherapy as first-line therapy monotherapy; for patients with PD-L1 levels of 50% or more, 5-year 
for patients with advanced nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC and PD-L1 overall survival is about 29.6% and 25%, respectively.11 Median overall 
expression levels of 50% or more, but without EGFR mutations or ALK survival was 22.3 months (95% CI, 17.1–32.3) for treatment-naïve 
fusions.9,121 At 6 months, the rate of overall survival was 80.2% with patients and 10.5 months (95% CI, 8.6–13.2) for patients previously 
pembrolizumab monotherapy versus 72.4% with chemotherapy (HR for treated with pembrolizumab monotherapy. For patients with metastatic 
death, 0.60; 95% CI, 0.41–0.89; P = .005). Reponses were higher for NSCLC receiving chemotherapy alone, 5-year overall survival is 
pembrolizumab than for chemotherapy (44.8% vs. 27.8%).121 An updated approximately 6%.11  
analysis of KEYNOTE-024 showed that median overall survival was 
increased with pembrolizumab monotherapy (30.0 months; 95% CI, 18.3 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends single-agent pembrolizumab 
months–not reached) compared with chemotherapy (14.2 months; 95% (category 1; preferred) as a first-line therapy option for eligible patients 
CI, 9.8–19.0 months; HR, 0.63; 95% CI, 0.47–0.86).9 Fewer severe with advanced nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC, PD-L1 expression 
treatment-related adverse events (grades 3–5) were reported in patients levels of 50% or more, no contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-57 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, estimated rate of overall survival at one year was 69.2% (95% CI, 64.1%–
or BRAF variants based on clinical trial data and FDA approval.121,838,847 73.8%) in patients receiving pembrolizumab/chemotherapy versus 49.4% 
Maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab is also a recommended option (95% CI, 42.1%–56.2%) for chemotherapy alone (HR for death, 0.49; 95% 
in this setting (category 1). For patients who progress on first-line therapy CI, 0.38–0.64; P < .001) after a median follow-up of 10.5 months. Overall 
with single-agent pembrolizumab, subsequent therapy with initial survival was improved regardless of PD-L1 expression levels; TMB did not 
cytotoxic systemic therapy regimens (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel) is predict for response.849 For the pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy group, 
recommended by the NCCN NSCLC Panel.  median PFS was 8.8 months (95% CI, 7.6–9.2) compared with 4.9 months 
(95% CI, 4.7–5.5) for chemotherapy alone (HR for disease progression or 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends single-agent pembrolizumab death, 0.52; 95% CI, 0.43–0.64; P < .001). Grade 3 or higher adverse 
as a first-line therapy option (category 2B; useful in certain events occurred at a similar rate in both arms 
circumstances) for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC, PD-L1 (pembrolizumab/chemotherapy, 67.2% vs. chemotherapy, 65.8%).  
expression levels of 1% to 49%, no contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 
inhibitors, and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends pembrolizumab plus pemetrexed 
skipping, RET, or BRAF variants based on clinical trial data and FDA and either carboplatin or cisplatin (category 1; preferred) as a first-line 
approval.838,847 The NCCN NSCLC Panel decided that single-agent therapy option for eligible patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC 
pembrolizumab is a useful intervention in patients with PD-L1 levels of 1% (ie, adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma) or NSCLC NOS based on 
to 49% who cannot tolerate or refuse platinum-based chemotherapy clinical trial data and on FDA approval.848,850 For the 2020 update (Version 
(category 2B; useful in certain circumstances). In patients with PD-L1 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy 
levels of 1% to 49%, the HR of 0.92 is not statistically or clinically regimens and decided that these pembrolizumab/chemotherapy regimens 
significant for pembrolizumab monotherapy versus chemotherapy; are preferred first-line options for eligible patients with metastatic 
therefore, pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy is recommended (category nonsquamous NSCLC, regardless of their PD-L1 expression levels. These 
1; preferred) if patients can tolerate the therapy. Maintenance therapy pembrolizumab/chemotherapy regimens are recommended (category 1; 
with pembrolizumab is also a recommended option in this setting preferred) as first-line therapy options for patients with metastatic 
(category 2B).  nonsquamous NSCLC, no contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors, 
and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, BRAF V600E, METex14 
First-Line Combination Therapy skipping, RET, and ROS1 variants, regardless of their PD-L1 expression 
KEYNOTE-189, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared pembrolizumab levels. Maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab/pemetrexed is also a 
added to carboplatin (or cisplatin)/pemetrexed versus chemotherapy in recommended option (category 1) in this setting. For patients with 
patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC.848 Most patients received metastatic NSCLC who progress on combination therapy with PD-1/PD-L1 
pembrolizumab/carboplatin/pemetrexed (72% [445/616]) in this trial, but inhibitors/chemotherapy, subsequent therapy with docetaxel (with or 
some received pembrolizumab plus cisplatin plus pemetrexed (28% without ramucirumab), pemetrexed (nonsquamous only), or gemcitabine is 
[171/616]); patients did not have EGFR mutations or ALK fusions. The recommended if not previously given.  
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-58 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
KEYNOTE-407, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared pembrolizumab the pembrolizumab/cisplatin with either paclitaxel or albumin-bound 
added to carboplatin and either paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel in paclitaxel regimen, because there are less data for this regimen.  
patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC; 32% of patients received 
albumin-bound paclitaxel (also known as nab-paclitaxel).851 Median Subsequent Therapy 
overall survival was 15.9 months (95% CI, 13.2–not reached) with KEYNOTE-010, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared single-agent 
pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy versus 11.3 months (95% CI, 9.5– pembrolizumab in patients with previously treated advanced 
14.8) with chemotherapy alone (HR for death, 0.64; 95% CI, 0.49–0.85; nonsquamous and squamous NSCLC who were PD-L1 positive (≥1%); 
P < .001). Patients receiving pembrolizumab/chemotherapy had an most patients were current or former smokers.840 There were 3 arms in 
overall response rate of 57.9% compared to 38.4% for those receiving this trial: pembrolizumab at 2 mg/kg, pembrolizumab at 10 mg/kg, and 
chemotherapy alone. Only 38% of patients had a PD-L1 TPS less than docetaxel at 75 mg/m² every 3 weeks. The median overall survival was 
1%. Grade 3 or higher adverse events were similar in both groups 10.4 months for the lower dose of pembrolizumab, 12.7 months for the 
(pembrolizumab/chemotherapy, 69.8% vs. chemotherapy alone, 68.2%). higher dose, and 8.5 months for docetaxel. Overall survival was 
Because of adverse events, more patients discontinued treatment with significantly longer for both doses of pembrolizumab versus docetaxel 
pembrolizumab/chemotherapy than with chemotherapy (13.3% vs. 6.4%, (pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg: HR, 0.71; 95% CI, 0.58–0.88; P = .0008) 
respectively). (pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg: HR, 0.61; CI, 0.49–0.75; P < .0001). For those 
patients with at least 50% PD-L1 expression in tumor cells, overall survival 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends pembrolizumab plus carboplatin was also significantly longer at either dose of pembrolizumab when 
and either paclitaxel or albumin-bound paclitaxel (category 1; preferred) compared with docetaxel (pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg: 14.9 vs. 8.2 months;  
as a first-line therapy option for patients with metastatic squamous cell 
NSCLC based on clinical trial data from and FDA approval.851,852 HR, 0.54; 95% CI, 0.38–0.77; P = .0002) (pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg: 17.3 
Maintenance therapy with pembrolizumab is also a recommended option vs. 8.2 months; HR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.36–0.70; P < .0001). When compared 
in this setting (category 1). For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN with docetaxel, there were fewer grade 3 to 5 treatment-related adverse 
NSCLC Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens and events at either dose of pembrolizumab (pembrolizumab 2 mg/kg: 13% 
decided that these pembrolizumab/chemotherapy regimens are preferred [43/339] of patients, pembrolizumab 10 mg/kg: 16% [55/343] of patients; 
for eligible patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC, regardless of and docetaxel: 35% [109/309] of patients). A total of 6 treatment-related 
their PD-L1 expression levels. These pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy deaths occurred in patients receiving pembrolizumab (3 at each dose) and 
regimens are recommended (category 1; preferred) as first-line therapy 5 treatment-related deaths occurred in the docetaxel arm.  
options for patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC, no 
contraindications to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors, and negative test results for If patients have not previously received a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, the NCCN 
EGFR, ALK, BRAF V600E, METex14 skipping, RET, and ROS1 variants, NSCLC Panel recommends single-agent pembrolizumab (category 1; 
regardless of their PD-L1 expression levels. For the 2020 update preferred) as a subsequent therapy option for patients with metastatic 
(Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel deleted the recommendation for nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC and PD-L1 expression levels of 1% or 
more based on clinical trial data and FDA approval.840,853,854 Testing for 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-59 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
PD-L1 expression levels is recommended before prescribing patients with EGFR mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC (n = 34) 
pembrolizumab monotherapy (see Principles of Molecular and Biomarker compared with those receiving carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus 
Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  bevacizumab (n = 45).856 Therefore, the ABCP regimen may be an option 
for patients with EGFR mutations or ALK fusions who have progressed 
Atezolizumab after initial therapy with TKIs.  
Atezolizumab is a human ICI antibody that inhibits PD-L1, which improves 
antitumor immunity.314 Immune-mediated adverse events may occur with IMpower130, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared atezolizumab plus 
atezolizumab.839,855 For patients with immune-mediated adverse events, carboplatin plus nab-paclitaxel versus chemotherapy alone as first-line 
intravenous high-dose corticosteroids should be administered based on therapy in patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC with no EGFR 
the severity of the reaction (see the NCCN Guidelines for the Management mutations or ALK fusions.857 Median overall survival was 18.6 months 
of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities, available at www.NCCN.org). (95% CI, 16.0–21.2) in the atezolizumab plus chemotherapy arm versus 
Atezolizumab should also be permanently discontinued for patients with 13.9 months (95% CI, 12.0–18.7) with carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel (HR, 
severe or life-threatening pneumonitis and should be discontinued for 0.79; 95% CI, 0.64–0.98; P = .033). Treatment-related deaths were 
other severe or life-threatening immune-mediated adverse events when reported in 2% (8/473) of patients in the atezolizumab plus chemotherapy 
indicated (see prescribing information). arm and in less than 1% (1/232) of patients in the chemotherapy only arm.  
First-Line Therapy The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends the ABCP regimen (category 1; 
IMpower150, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line therapy with other recommended intervention) as a first-line therapy option for eligible 
the ABCP regimen for patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC (including 
versus bevacizumab plus chemotherapy.855 Median overall survival was adenocarcinoma) based on clinical trial data and FDA approval.855 The 
19.2 months (95% CI, 17.0–23.8) in the ABCP arm versus 14.7 months ABCP regimen (also known as the quadruplicate regimen) is 
(95% CI, 13.3–16.9) in the carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumab arm; the recommended as a first-line therapy option for patients with negative test 
HR for death was 0.78 (95% CI, 0.64–0.96; P = .02). PFS was longer in results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants, 
the ABCP arm versus chemotherapy/bevacizumab (8.3 vs. 6.8 months; regardless of PD-L1 expression levels. Maintenance therapy with 
HR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.52–0.74; P < .001). Some patients with EGFR atezolizumab and bevacizumab is also recommended in this setting 
mutations or ALK fusions (n = 108) who had progressed on (or were (category 1; other recommended intervention) (see Maintenance Therapy 
intolerant of) prior TKI were enrolled in this trial, although most patients in this Discussion). For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC 
(87%) did not have these genetic variants. In these patients with EGFR Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy regimens and decided 
mutations or ALK fusions, PFS was also increased with ABCP compared that the ABCP regimen is an other recommended intervention, because 
with chemotherapy/bevacizumab (9.7 vs. 6.1 months; HR, 0.59; 95% CI, the NCCN NSCLC Panel prefers the pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy 
0.37–0.94). A subgroup analysis of IMpower150 reported that subsequent regimens based on tolerability and experience with these regimens. The 
therapy with the ABCP regimen increased median overall survival in a few NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends that bevacizumab biosimilars may be 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-60 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
used in any of the systemic therapy regimens containing bevacizumab, methods of testing for PD-L1 levels are not equivalent.318,319 Based on an 
such as ABCP, that are used for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC interim analysis using the SP142 PD-L1 IHC assay, median OS was 20.2 
based on clinical data and FDA approvals.753-757  months (95% CI,16.5–not estimable) with atezolizumab monotherapy (n = 
107) versus 13.1 months (95% CI, 7.4–16.5 months) with chemotherapy 
For the 2020 update (Version 2), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends (n = 98) (HR, 0.59; 95% CI, 0.40–0.89; P=.0106) in patients with high 
atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel (category 2A; other recommended PD-L1 expression. Based on an interim analysis using the 22C3 pharmDx 
intervention) as a first-line therapy option for eligible patients with assay, median OS was 20.2 months with atezolizumab monotherapy (n = 
metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial data.857 134) versus 11.0 months with chemotherapy (n = 126) (HR, 0.60; 95% CI, 
Atezolizumab/carboplatin/nab-paclitaxel is recommended as a first-line 0.41–0.86).859 There was no survival advantage in the other two 
therapy option for patients with metastatic NSCLC and negative test subgroups of patients with lower PD-L1 expression (ie, TC ≥ 5% or IC ≥ 
results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants, 5%; TC ≥ 1% or IC ≥ 1%). Atezolizumab monotherapy was associated 
regardless of histology or PD-L1 levels. Maintenance therapy with with fatal adverse reactions in 3.8% of all patients (11/ 286, all 3 groups) 
atezolizumab is also recommended in this setting (category 2A).  including aspiration, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, pulmonary 
IMpower110, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line therapy with embolism, acute myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, mechanical ileus, 
atezolizumab monotherapy versus platinum-based chemotherapy in three sepsis, cerebral infraction, and device occlusion; 4.2% of patients (11/263) 
different subgroups of patients with metastatic NSCLC, including those receiving chemotherapy also died. Grade 3 to 4 treatment-related adverse 
with high PD-L1 expression (PD-L1 stained ≥ 50% of tumor cells [TC ≥ events occurred in 12.9% of patients receiving atezolizumab monotherapy 
50%] or PD-L1 stained tumor-infiltrating [IC] covering ≥ 10% of the tumor versus 44.1% with chemotherapy. The most frequent serious adverse 
area [IC ≥ 10%]); patients were wild type for EGFR or ALK variants and reactions with atezolizumab monotherapy were pneumonia (2.8%), 
most were either former smokers or current smokers.858 Patients receiving chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (2.1%), and pneumonitis (2.1%); 
first-line atezolizumab monotherapy also received maintenance therapy 28% of patients had serious adverse reactions.  
with atezolizumab. Chemotherapy regimens for patients with For the 2020 update (Version 5), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
nonsquamous NSCLC included cisplatin (or carboplatin)/pemetrexed and atezolizumab monotherapy (category 2A; preferred) as a first-line therapy 
maintenance therapy with pemetrexed; patients with squamous cell option for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC based on preliminary 
NSCLC received cisplatin/gemcitabine and best supportive care as clinical trial data and on the FDA approval.858 Atezolizumab monotherapy 
maintenance therapy.  is recommended as a first-line therapy option for patients with metastatic 
It is important to note that a different IHC assay was used to test for PD-L1 NSCLC, PD-L1 levels of 50% or more, and negative test results for EGFR, 
levels in IMpower110 (SP142 PD-L1 IHC assay) compared with IHC ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants, regardless of 
assays used for pembrolizumab monotherapy in KEYNOTE-024 (PD-L1 histology; maintenance therapy with atezolizumab is also recommended in 
IHC 22C3 pharmDx assay); however, the results were similar regardless this setting. For the Version 5 update, the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference 
of which PD-L1 IHC assay was used.859 Data suggest that different 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-61 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
stratified the regimen and voted that atezolizumab monotherapy is a immunity.309,312,121 PD-1 receptors are expressed on activated cytotoxic T 
preferred recommended option in this setting based on clinical trial data.858  cells.309-311 Ipilimumab is a human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte antigen 4 
(CTLA-4)–blocking antibody that binds to CTLA-4 and prevents the 
Subsequent Therapy interactions with CD80/CD86, which induces de novo T-cell responses 
OAK, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared atezolizumab versus against tumors; CTLA-4 inhibits T-cell activation.861 Immune-mediated 
docetaxel in patients with metastatic NSCLC who had progressed during adverse events may occur with nivolumab or nivolumab/ipilimumab.862 For 
or after systemic therapy.839,860 Most patients were current or former patients with immune-mediated adverse events, intravenous high-dose 
smokers and had received platinum-based chemotherapy; 10% of corticosteroids should be administered based on the severity of the 
patients were not reported because they had EGFR mutations and ALK reaction (see the NCCN Guidelines for the Management of 
fusions.839,860 Patients with nonsquamous NSCLC who received Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities, available at www.NCCN.org). 
atezolizumab had longer overall survival (15.6 months; 95% CI, 13.3– Nivolumab either with or without ipilimumab should also be permanently 
17.6) when compared with those receiving docetaxel (11.2 months; 95% discontinued for patients with severe or life-threatening pneumonitis and 
CI, 9.3–12.6; HR, 0.73; 0.6–0.89; P = .0015). In patients with squamous should be discontinued for other severe or life-threatening 
cell NSCLC, overall survival was 8.9 months (95% CI, 7.4–12.8) in immune-mediated adverse events when indicated (see prescribing 
patients receiving atezolizumab versus 7.7 months (95% CI, 6.3–8.9) information). If patients are receiving nivolumab plus ipilimumab and have 
with docetaxel (HR, 0.73; 0.54–0.98; P = .038). Fewer patients were in treatment-related adverse events, it may be reasonable to discontinue 
the squamous group compared with the nonsquamous group (222 vs. ipilimumab and continue the nivolumab.862  
628). Fewer treatment-related severe adverse events (grades 3–4) were 
reported for atezolizumab versus docetaxel (15% vs. 43% [90/609 vs. First-Line Therapy 
247/578]).  CheckMate 227, a phase 3 randomized trial in patients with metastatic 
nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC who had PS 0 to 1 and no EGFR 
If patients have not previously received a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, the NCCN mutations or ALK fusions, compared nivolumab/ipilimumab, nivolumab 
NSCLC Panel recommends atezolizumab (category 1; preferred) as a monotherapy, and chemotherapy for patients with PD-L1 expression levels 
subsequent therapy option for patients with metastatic nonsquamous or of 1% or more. Nivolumab/ipilimumab, nivolumab/chemotherapy, and 
squamous cell NSCLC based on clinical trial data and FDA chemotherapy alone were also compared for patients with PD-L1 
approval.314,839,860 Testing for PD-L1 expression levels is not required for expression levels less than 1%. In addition, first-line nivolumab/ipilimumab 
prescribing atezolizumab but may provide useful information.  and chemotherapy were compared as one of the co-primary analyses in 
the patients who had high TMB levels (≥10 mutations/megabase).179 The 
Nivolumab with or Without Ipilimumab PFS rate at 1 year was 42.6% for nivolumab/ipilimumab versus 13.2% for 
Nivolumab and ipilimumab are ICIs that have complementary mechanisms chemotherapy alone. The median PFS for nivolumab/ipilimumab was 7.2 
of action on T-cells; nivolumab is used either with or without ipilimumab. months (95% CI, 5.5–13.2) compared with 5.5 months for chemotherapy 
Nivolumab inhibits PD-1 receptors, which improves antitumor alone (95% CI, 4.4–5.8) (HR for disease progression or death, 0.58; 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-62 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
97.5% CI, 0.41–0.81; P < .001). The objective response rate for nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 expression 
nivolumab/ipilimumab was 45.3% versus 26.9% with chemotherapy alone; levels, who had PS 0 to 1 and no EGFR mutations or ALK fusions.863 For 
nivolumab/ipilimumab was beneficial regardless of PD-L1 expression metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC, the chemotherapy was pemetrexed with 
levels or histology. The rate of grade 3 or 4 adverse events was similar for either cisplatin or carboplatin; for metastatic squamous NSCLC, the 
nivolumab/ipilimumab versus chemotherapy alone (31% vs. 36%). The chemotherapy was paclitaxel with carboplatin. Preliminary data show that 
median PFS was not significantly different when comparing nivolumab the median overall survival with nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy was 
monotherapy (N = 71) (4.2 months; 95% CI, 2.7–8.3) versus 15.6 months (95% CI, 13.9–20.0 months) versus 10.9 months (95% CI, 
chemotherapy (N = 79) (5.6 months; 95% CI, 4.5–7.0). Updated results 9.5–12.5 months) with chemotherapy regardless of histology or PD-L1 
from CheckMate 227 for patients with PD-L1 expression of 1% or more, expression levels (HR, 0.66; 95% CI, 0.55–0.80). Overall survival was also 
reported that the median overall survival was 17.1 months (95% CI, 15.0– significantly different between the groups based on histology or PD-L1 
20.1) for nivolumab plus ipilimumab versus 14.9 months (95% CI, 12.7– expression levels. The overall response rate was 38% with nivolumab plus 
16.7) for chemotherapy (HR = 0.79; 95% CI, 0.65–0.96; P = .007).862  ipilimumab plus chemotherapy versus 25% with chemotherapy alone. 
Serious grade 3 or 4 adverse events occurred in 25.4% of patients 
For the 2020 update (Version 2), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends receiving nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy versus 15% in those 
nivolumab plus ipilimumab (category 2A) as a first-line therapy option for receiving chemotherapy alone. The death rate was 2% in each arm 
eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial (nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy: 7/358; chemotherapy alone: 6/349). 
data.179,180,862 Nivolumab/ipilimumab is recommended for patients with In the nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy arm, treatment-related deaths 
metastatic NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 levels or histology; negative test were from acute renal failure due to chemotherapy, thrombocytopenia, 
results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants; pneumonitis, hepatic toxicity, hepatitis, diarrhea, sepsis, and acute renal 
and no contraindications to immunotherapy. For the 2020 update (Version insufficiency; treatment-related deaths in the chemotherapy arm were from 
1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified the systemic therapy anemia, pancytopenia, febrile neutropenia, respiratory failure, pulmonary 
regimens and decided that first-line therapy with nivolumab/ipilimumab is sepsis, and sepsis. The most common treatment-related adverse events 
“useful in certain circumstances” (eg, renal impairment) for patients with (≥15%) were nausea, anemia, asthenia, and diarrhea. 
PD-L1 levels of 1% or more and is an “other recommended” first-line 
therapy option for patients with PD-L1 levels less than 1%.TMB is For the 2020 update (Version 6), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
considered to be an emerging biomarker that may be useful in selecting nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy (category 2A; other recommended) 
patients for nivolumab with or without ipilimumab; however, there is no as a first-line therapy option for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC 
consensus on how to measure TMB.  based on preliminary clinical trial data and the FDA approval.863 For 
metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC, the recommended chemotherapy is 
CheckMate 9LA, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared first-line pemetrexed with either cisplatin or carboplatin; for metastatic squamous 
nivolumab/ipilimumab and 2 cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy NSCLC, the recommended chemotherapy is paclitaxel with carboplatin. 
versus 4 cycles of chemotherapy alone in patients with metastatic Nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy is recommended for patients with 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-63 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
metastatic NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 levels; negative test results for compared with 6.0 months (95% CI, 5.1–7.3) for docetaxel (HR, 0.59; 95% 
EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, METex14 skipping, or RET variants; and no CI, 0.44–0.79; P < .001).312 Patients had a response rate of 20% with 
contraindications to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. For the Version 6 update, the nivolumab compared with 9% for docetaxel (P = .008). PD-L1 expression 
panel preference stratified the regimen and voted that first-line therapy was not associated with response to nivolumab in patients with squamous 
with nivolumab plus ipilimumab plus chemotherapy is an “other cell NSCLC. Fewer grade 3 to 4 adverse events were reported with 
recommended” first-line therapy option for eligible patients with metastatic nivolumab (7%) compared with docetaxel (55%). No patients died in the 
NSCLC.  nivolumab arm versus 3 deaths in the docetaxel arm. 
Subsequent Therapy In a long-term analysis of CheckMate-057 and CheckMate-017, 2-year 
CheckMate-057, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared nivolumab versus survival and durable responses were increased in patients with advanced 
docetaxel as subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic NSCLC receiving nivolumab when compared with docetaxel.864 For 
nonsquamous NSCLC who had progressed on or after first-line patients with nonsquamous NSCLC, 2-year survival was 29% (95% CI, 
chemotherapy.309 Median overall survival was 12.2 months (95% CI, 9.7– 24%–34%) with nivolumab versus 16% (95% CI, 12%–20%) with 
15.0) for patients receiving nivolumab compared with 9.4 months (95% CI, docetaxel. For those with squamous NSCLC, 2-year survival was 23% 
8.1–10.7) for docetaxel (HR, 0.73; 95% CI, 0.59–0.89; P = .002).309 The (95% CI, 16%–30%) with nivolumab versus 8% (95% CI, 4%–13%) with 
median duration of response was 17.2 months with nivolumab compared docetaxel. Fewer severe treatment-related adverse events were reported 
with 5.6 months for docetaxel. At 18 months, the overall survival rate was with nivolumab compared with docetaxel (grade 3–4, 10% vs. 55%).  
39% (95% CI, 34%–45%) with nivolumab compared with 23% (95% CI, 
19%–28%) with docetaxel. Fewer grade 3 to 5 adverse events were If patients have not previously received a PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitor, the NCCN 
reported for nivolumab (10%) when compared with docetaxel (54%). NSCLC Panel recommends single-agent nivolumab (category 1; 
Although many patients with metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC benefit preferred) as a subsequent therapy option for patients with metastatic 
from nivolumab, those whose tumors have PD-L1 staining of 1% to 10% or nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC who have progressed on or after 
more have an overall survival of 17 to 19 months compared with 8 to 9 first-line chemotherapy based on clinical trial data and the FDA 
months for docetaxel. For patients who did not have PD-L1 expression, approvals.309,312,864,865 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends nivolumab, 
there was no difference in overall survival for nivolumab versus docetaxel; atezolizumab, or pembrolizumab as preferred subsequent therapy options 
however, nivolumab was associated with a longer duration of response (category 1 for all) based on improved overall survival rates, longer 
and fewer side effects. duration of response, and fewer adverse events when compared with 
cytotoxic chemotherapy.309,312,840,866  
CheckMate-017, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared nivolumab versus 
docetaxel as subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic squamous To help clinicians determine which patients with nonsquamous NSCLC 
cell NSCLC who had progressed on or after first-line chemotherapy.312 may benefit most from treatment with nivolumab, the FDA has approved a 
Median overall survival was 9.2 months (95% CI, 7.3–13.3) with nivolumab complementary diagnostic biomarker test to assess for PD-L1 protein 
expression.867 Testing for PD-L1 is not required for prescribing nivolumab 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-64 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
but may provide useful information.320 Current or former smoking status Continuation Maintenance Therapy 
correlated with the response rate to ICIs.309,868 Data suggest that For continuation maintenance therapy, select agents (which were initially 
mismatch repair deficiency is associated with response to ICIs.869,870  given with first-line therapy) may be continued until evidence of disease 
progression or unacceptable toxicity based on the design of the clinical 
Immune-related adverse events, such as pneumonitis, may occur with trials that led to their approval. This section mainly discusses continuation 
nivolumab.311,844,846,871-875 Intravenous high-dose corticosteroids should be maintenance with chemotherapy; continuation maintenance with ICIs is 
administered for patients with immune-mediated adverse events based on discussed in another section (see Immune Checkpoint Inhibitors in this 
the severity of the reaction (see the NCCN Guidelines for the Management Discussion). Single-agent bevacizumab (category 1) may be continued 
of Immunotherapy-Related Toxicities, available at www.NCCN.org). beyond 4 to 6 cycles of initial therapy (ie, platinum-doublet chemotherapy 
Nivolumab should be discontinued for patients with severe or given with bevacizumab) in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC.720,878,879 
life-threatening pneumonitis and should be withheld or discontinued for The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends that bevacizumab biosimilars 
other severe or life-threatening immune-mediated adverse events when may be used in any of the systemic therapy regimens containing 
indicated (see prescribing information). bevacizumab (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel/bevacizumab) that are used for 
Maintenance Therapy  eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC based on clinical data and FDA 
approvals.753-757
Maintenance therapy refers to systemic therapy that may be given for  Therefore, if a bevacizumab biosimilar was initially used 
patients with advanced NSCLC after 4 to 6 cycles of first-line therapy.876 as part of first-line combination therapy, the biosimilar should be 
Patients are only candidates for maintenance therapy if their tumors have continued as maintenance therapy in eligible patients.  
responded to their previous treatment (ie, tumor response) or they have PARAMOUNT, a phase 3 randomized trial, reported that continuation 
stable disease and their tumors have not progressed. Continuation maintenance therapy with pemetrexed slightly increased PFS when 
maintenance therapy refers to the use of at least one of the agents that compared with placebo (4.1 vs. 2.8 months).880 Updated results from 
was given in the first-line regimen. Switch maintenance therapy refers to PARAMOUNT reported that continuation maintenance therapy with 
the initiation of a different agent that was not included as part of the pemetrexed also improves overall survival (13.9 vs. 11.0 months).881 The 
first-line regimen. Selection of appropriate maintenance therapy depends NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends single-agent pemetrexed as 
on several factors (eg, histologic type, presence of mutations or gene continuation maintenance therapy (category 1) in patients with 
fusions, PS). Maintenance therapy is recommended in the NCCN nonsquamous NSCLC based on clinical trial data and FDA 
Guidelines for select patients with tumor response or stable disease and is approval.878,880,881  
not recommended for all patients (eg, not recommended for PS 3–4, those 
with progression) (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).877 For the 2020 POINTBREAK, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed bevacizumab plus 
update (Version 1), the NCCN Panel deleted the recommendation for carboplatin/pemetrexed or bevacizumab plus carboplatin/paclitaxel in 
close observation instead of maintenance therapy.  patients with metastatic NSCLC; patients received maintenance therapy 
with either bevacizumab/pemetrexed or bevacizumab alone.726 PFS was 6 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-65 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
months with pemetrexed plus carboplatin/bevacizumab versus 5.6 months metastatic NSCLC, negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 
with paclitaxel plus carboplatin/bevacizumab.726 It is important to note that skipping, RET, or BRAF variants, and PD-L1 expression less than 1%.  
the pemetrexed-based arm was associated with less toxicity (eg, less 
neurotoxicity, less neutropenia, less hair loss) than the paclitaxel-based Use of continuation maintenance therapy depends on several factors, 
arm.  such as whether the patient had minimal toxicity during treatment. A drug 
vacation may be more appropriate for some patients.724 Some clinicians 
AVAPERL, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed maintenance therapy feel that continuation maintenance therapy is only appropriate for select 
with bevacizumab/pemetrexed versus bevacizumab alone in patients with patients, because it has only been shown to improve overall survival or 
advanced nonsquamous NSCLC; the initial regimen was quality of life for a few agents and not all agents, although it has been 
bevacizumab/cisplatin/pemetrexed.882,883 An updated analysis reported shown to improve PFS.722,724 In addition, maintenance therapy has not 
that overall survival was 17.1 months with bevacizumab/pemetrexed been shown to be superior to subsequent therapy, which is initiated at 
maintenance versus 13.2 months with bevacizumab alone (HR, 0.87; 95% disease progression. A phase 3 randomized trial suggests that 
CI, 0.63–1.21; P = .29).882 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends conventional cytotoxic agents should not be continued beyond 4 to 6 
continuation maintenance therapy with bevacizumab/pemetrexed cycles of therapy; however, many patients assigned to a longer duration of 
(category 2A) in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC who initially received therapy did not receive the planned number of cycles (see Maintenance 
bevacizumab/pemetrexed/platinum regimen based on clinical trial Therapy in this Discussion).721,722  
data.882,883  
Switch Maintenance Therapy 
IFCT-GFPC 0502, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared using Issues have been raised about switch maintenance therapy, including the 
maintenance therapy with either gemcitabine or erlotinib after first-line design of the trials, modest survival benefits, quality of life, and 
therapy with cisplatin-gemcitabine in patients with advanced NSCLC. toxicity.724,886 Two phase 3 randomized trials reported a benefit in PFS and 
Continuation maintenance therapy with single-agent gemcitabine was overall survival with the initiation of pemetrexed after first-line 
reported to increase PFS to a greater extent (3.8 months) than switch chemotherapy (4–6 cycles) in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and no 
maintenance therapy with erlotinib (2.9 months) when compared with apparent disease progression.887,888 The NCCN NSCLC Panel 
observation (1.9 months).672,884 A phase 3 randomized trial from the recommends switch maintenance therapy with pemetrexed in patients with 
CECOG assessed continuation maintenance therapy with gemcitabine nonsquamous cell carcinoma; negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, 
versus best supportive care after an initial regimen of METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants; and PD-L1 expression less 
cisplatin/gemcitabine.885 The data showed a slight difference in PFS but no than 1% based on clinical trial data and FDA approval.888,889  
difference in overall survival (13 vs. 11 months, respectively; P = .195). 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends gemcitabine (category 2B) as The NCCN NSCLC Panel does not recommend erlotinib as switch 
continuation maintenance therapy regardless of histology in patients with maintenance therapy (or as subsequent therapy) for patients with 
nonsquamous NSCLC, good PS, negative test results for EGFR, ALK, 
ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants based on results from 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-66 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
IUNO, a randomized trial, and a revised indication from the FDA.890 The cessation advice, counseling, and pharmacotherapy be provided to 
NCCN NSCLC Panel also deleted the recommendations for switch patients.42,893-895 After the clinical stage is determined, the patient is 
maintenance therapy with erlotinib in patients with squamous cell NSCLC, assigned to one of the pathways that are defined by the stage, specific 
because overall survival and quality of life were not improved.672,891 A subdivision of the particular stage, and location of the tumor. Note that for 
phase 3 trial assessed switch maintenance therapy with docetaxel given some patients, diagnosis, staging, and surgical resection are done during 
either immediately after chemotherapy or delayed until progression.892 the same operative procedure. A multidisciplinary evaluation should be 
Switch maintenance therapy with docetaxel is a category 2B done before treatment.  
recommendation in the NCCN Guidelines for patients with squamous cell 
NSCLC, good PS, and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, Additional Pretreatment Evaluation 
METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants, because many patients in the As previously noted, evaluation of the mediastinal nodes is a key step in 
delayed chemotherapy arm did not receive docetaxel.892  the further staging of the patient. FDG PET/CT scans can be used as an 
initial assessment of the hilar and mediastinal nodes (ie, to determine 
Clinical Evaluation  whether the N1, N2, or N3 nodes are positive for cancer, which is a key 
The workup and evaluation of incidental lung nodules that are detected on determinant of stage II and stage III disease); however, CT scans have 
imaging for other conditions are described in the NSCLC algorithm (see known limitations for evaluating the extent of lymph node involvement in 
Incidental Lung Nodules in this Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for lung cancer.96,896-898 When compared with noninvasive staging methods 
NSCLC). The cutoff thresholds are 6 mm for a positive scan result for (EBUS, EUS), surgical staging with mediastinoscopy is more appropriate 
incidental solid and subsolid lung nodules detected on chest CT based on for certain settings when evaluating mediastinal nodes; however, 
the Fleischner criteria (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).79-83 As clinicians use both methods when staging patients.96 Thus, 
previously described, low-dose CT screening is recommended for mediastinoscopy is encouraged as part of the initial evaluation, particularly 
asymptomatic select patients who are at high risk for lung cancer and if the results of imaging are not conclusive and the probability of 
management of any nodules detected in these patients is described mediastinal involvement is high (based on tumor size and location). 
elsewhere (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening, Therefore, mediastinoscopy is appropriate for patients with T2 to T3 
available at www.NCCN.org).  lesions even if the FDG PET/CT scan does not suggest mediastinal node 
involvement.  
After patients are confirmed to have NSCLC based on a pathologic 
diagnosis, a clinical evaluation needs to be done (see the NCCN Mediastinoscopy may also be appropriate to confirm mediastinal node 
Guidelines for NSCLC). In patients with symptoms, the clinical stage is involvement in patients with a positive FDG PET/CT scan. In patients with 
initially determined from disease history (ie, cough, dyspnea, chest pain, solid tumors less than 1 cm or those with purely nonsolid tumors (ie, 
weight loss) and physical examination together with a limited battery of GGOs) less than 3 cm, pathologic mediastinal lymph node evaluation is 
tests (see Evaluation and Clinical Stage in the NCCN Guidelines for optional if the nodes are FDG PET/CT negative because there is a low 
NSCLC). The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends that smoking likelihood of positive mediastinal nodes.899 Mediastinal evaluation can be 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-67 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
considered in patients with clinical stage 1A disease (T1ab,N0). In patients staging of NSCLC, for example, in identifying stage I (peripheral and 
with peripheral T2a, central T1ab, or T2a lesions with negative FDG central T1–2,N0), stage II, stage III, and stage IV diseases.96,902,903 
PET/CT scans, the risk for mediastinal lymph node involvement is higher However, FDG PET/CT is even more sensitive and is recommended by 
and mediastinoscopy and/or EUS-FNA and EBUS-TBNA are NCCN.904-906 PET/CT is typically done from the skull base to the knees; 
recommended. Dillemans et al have reported a selective mediastinoscopy whole body PET/CT may also be done.  
strategy, proceeding straight to thoracotomy without mediastinoscopy for 
T1 peripheral tumors without enlarged mediastinal lymph nodes on The NCCN NSCLC Panel assessed studies that examined the sensitivity 
and specificity of chest CT scans for mediastinal lymph node staging.907
preoperative CT.900 This strategy resulted in a 16% incidence of positive  
N2 nodes discovered only at the time of thoracotomy.  Depending on the clinical scenario, a sensitivity of 40% to 65% and a 
specificity of 45% to 90% were reported.908 Because they detect tumor 
For identifying N2 disease, chest CT scans had sensitivity and specificity physiology, as opposed to anatomy, PET scans may be more sensitive 
rates of 69% and 71%, respectively. Using the chest CT scan plus than CT scans. Moreover, if postobstructive pneumonitis is present, there 
mediastinoscopy was significantly more accurate (89% vs. 71%) than is little correlation between the size of the mediastinal lymph nodes and 
using the chest CT scan alone for identifying N2 disease. When using CT tumor involvement.909 Chin et al found that PET, when used to stage the 
scans, node positivity is based on the size of the lymph nodes. Therefore, mediastinal nodes, was 78% sensitive and 81% specific with a negative 
the CT scan will miss small metastases that do not result in node predictive value of 89%.910 Kernstine et al compared PET scan to CT scan 
enlargement. To address this issue, Arita et al specifically examined lung for identifying N2 and N3 disease in NSCLC.911 The PET scan was found 
cancer metastases to normal size mediastinal lymph nodes in 90 patients to be more sensitive than the CT scan in identifying mediastinal node 
and found an incidence of 16% (14/90) false-negative chest CT scans with disease (70% vs. 65%). FDG PET/CT has been shown to be useful in 
histologic identification of occult N2 or N3 disease.901 Bronchoscopy is restaging patients after adjuvant therapy.912,913  
used in diagnosis and local staging of both central and peripheral lung 
lesions and is recommended for pretreatment evaluation of stage I to IIIA When patients with early-stage disease are accurately staged using FDG 
tumors. In patients who present with a solitary pulmonary nodule where PET/CT, inappropriate surgery is avoided.904 Positive FDG PET/CT scan 
the suspicion of malignancy is high, surgical resection without prior findings for distant disease need pathologic or other radiologic 
invasive testing may be reasonable.  confirmation (eg, MRI of bone). If the FDG PET/CT scan is positive in the 
mediastinum, the lymph node status needs pathologic confirmation.96,914 
As previously mentioned, CT scans have known limitations for evaluating Transesophageal EUS-FNA and EBUS-TBNA have proven useful to stage 
the extent of lymph node involvement in lung cancer.896 PET scans have patients or to diagnose mediastinal lesions; these techniques can be used 
been used to help evaluate the extent of disease and to provide more instead of invasive staging procedures in select patients.915-918 When 
accurate staging. The NCCN NSCLC Panel reviewed the diagnostic compared with CT and PET, EBUS-TBNA has a high sensitivity and 
performance of CT and PET scans. The NCCN NSCLC Panel believes specificity for staging mediastinal and hilar lymph nodes in patients with 
that PET scans can play a role in the evaluation and more accurate lung cancer.919 In patients with positive nodes on CT or PET, EBUS-TNBA 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-68 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
can be used to clarify the results.920,921 In patients with negative findings on test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, BRAF, METex14 skipping, RET, or 
EBUS-TNBA, conventional mediastinoscopy can be done to confirm the NTRK variants.  
results.916,921-923 Note that EBUS is also known as endosonography.  
Stage I, Stage II, and Stage IIIA Disease 
The routine use of bone scans (to exclude bone metastases) is not Depending on the extent and type of comorbidity present, patients with 
recommended. Brain MRI with contrast is recommended to rule out stage I or a subset of stage II (T1–2,N1) tumors are generally candidates 
asymptomatic brain metastases in patients with stage II, III, and IV for surgical resection and mediastinal lymph node dissection. Definitive 
disease if aggressive combined-modality therapy is being considered.924 RT, including SABR, is recommended for patients with early-stage NSCLC 
Patients with stage IB NSCLC are less likely to have brain metastases; who are medically inoperable or refuse surgery; RT can be considered as 
therefore, brain MRI is optional in this setting and can be considered for an alternative to surgery in patients at high risk of complications (see 
select patients at high risk (eg, tumors greater than 5 cm, central location). Stereotactic Ablative Radiotherapy in this Discussion and see Initial 
If brain MRI cannot be done, then CT of the head with contrast is an Treatment for Stage I and II in the NCCN Guidelines for 
option. Note that PET scans are not recommended for assessing whether NSCLC).326,344,347,420,477,925 In some instances, positive mediastinal nodes 
brain metastases are present (see the NCCN Guidelines for Central (N2) are discovered at surgery; in this setting, an additional assessment of 
Nervous System Cancers, available at www.NCCN.org).  staging and tumor resectability must be made, and the treatment (ie, 
Initial Therapy inclusion of systematic mediastinal lymph node dissection) must be 
modified accordingly. Therefore, the NCCN Guidelines include 2 different 
As previously mentioned, accurate pathologic assessment and staging are tracks for T1–2,N2 disease (ie, stage IIIA disease): 1) T1–2,N2 disease 
essential before treatment for NSCLC, because management varies discovered unexpectedly at surgical exploration; and 2) T1–2,N2 disease 
depending on the stage, histology, presence of genetic variants, and PS. confirmed before thoracotomy. In the second case, an initial brain MRI 
Before treatment, it is strongly recommended that determination of tumor with contrast and FDG PET/CT scan (if not previously done) are 
resectability be made by thoracic surgeons who perform lung cancer recommended to rule out metastatic disease.  
surgery as a prominent part of their practice (see Principles of Surgical 
Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). RT doses are also For patients with clinical stage IIB (T3,N0) and stage IIIA tumors who have 
recommended in the algorithm (see Principles of Radiation Therapy in the different treatment options (surgery, RT, or chemotherapy), a 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). In addition, the NCCN Guidelines also multidisciplinary evaluation is recommended before treatment. For the 
recommend regimens for targeted therapy, immunotherapy, subsets of stage IIB (T3,N0) and stage IIIA (T4,N0–1) tumors, treatment 
chemotherapy, and chemoradiation (see Chemotherapy Regimens for options are organized according to the location of the tumor such as the 
Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy, Chemotherapy Regimens Used with superior sulcus, chest wall, proximal airway, or mediastinum.334 For each 
Radiation Therapy, and Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic location, a thoracic surgeon needs to determine whether the tumor is 
Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Targeted therapy is resectable (see Principles of Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for 
recommended for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC and positive NSCLC). 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-69 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
For patients with resectable tumors (T3 invasion,N0–1) in the superior concerns that consolidation chemotherapy will increase the risk of 
sulcus, the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends preoperative concurrent pneumonitis if patients are also receiving durvalumab. However, 
chemoradiation therapy followed by surgical resection and chemotherapy consolidation chemotherapy is an option if patients will not be receiving 
(see Initial Treatment for Superior Sulcus Tumors in the NCCN Guidelines durvalumab.  
for NSCLC). Preoperative concurrent chemoradiation followed by surgical 
resection of a superior sulcus tumor has shown 2-year survival in the 50% Multimodality therapy is recommended for most patients with stage III 
NSCLC.686
to 70% range.334,440,442,926-929 The overall 5-year survival rate is  For patients with stage IIIA disease and positive mediastinal 
approximately 40%.440,930 Patients with possibly resectable superior sulcus nodes (T1–2,N2), treatment is based on the findings of pathologic 
tumors should undergo preoperative concurrent chemoradiation before mediastinal lymph node evaluation (see the NCCN Guidelines for 
surgical re-evaluation (including CT ± PET/CT). For patients with NSCLC). Patients with negative mediastinal biopsy findings are 
unresectable tumors (T4 extension,N0–1) in the superior sulcus, definitive candidates for surgery. For those patients with resectable lesions, 
concurrent chemoradiation is recommended. Two additional cycles of mediastinal lymph node dissection or lymph node sampling should be 
full-dose chemotherapy can be given if full-dose chemotherapy was not performed during the operation. Those individuals who are medically 
given concurrently with RT.694,931 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends inoperable should be treated according to their clinical stage (see the 
durvalumab (category 1) as consolidation immunotherapy after treatment NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). For patients with (T1–2) N2 node-positive 
with definitive concurrent chemoradiation for eligible patients with disease, a brain MRI with contrast and FDG PET/CT scan (if not done 
unresectable stage III NSCLC based on data from a phase 3 randomized previously) are recommended to search for distant metastases. When 
trial and FDA approval (see Chemoradiation: Trial Data and Durvalumab distant metastases are not present, the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
in this Discussion and the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).313 The that the patient be treated with definitive concurrent chemoradiation 
therapy (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).419,635
recommendation for consolidation immunotherapy with durvalumab occurs  Recommended 
in multiple places in the NCCN Guidelines.  therapy for metastatic disease depends on whether disease is in a solitary 
site or is widespread (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  
Surgical resection is the preferred treatment option for patients with 
tumors of the chest wall, proximal airway, or mediastinum (T3–4,N0–1). When a lung metastasis is present, it usually occurs in a patient with other 
Other treatment options include preoperative chemotherapy or concurrent systemic metastases; the prognosis is poor. Therefore, many of these 
chemoradiation before surgical resection. For unresectable tumors patients are not candidates for surgery; however, systemic therapy is 
(T4,N0–1) without pleural effusion, definitive concurrent chemoradiation recommended. Although uncommon, patients with lung metastases but 
(category 1) is recommended followed by consolidation immunotherapy without systemic metastases have a better prognosis and are candidates 
with durvalumab (category 1).386,634 for surgery (see Multiple Lung Cancers in this Discussion).932
 Recently, the NCCN NSCLC Panel  Patients with 
deleted the recommendation to add an additional 2 cycles of full-dose separate pulmonary nodule(s) in the same lobe (T3,N0–1) or ipsilateral 
chemotherapy if patients have not received full-dose chemotherapy non-primary lobe (T4,N0–1) without other systemic metastases are 
concurrently with RT and will be receiving durvalumab, based on potentially curable by surgery; 5-year survival rates are about 30%.933 For 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-70 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
those with N2 nodes after surgery, concurrent chemoradiation is Treatment of multiple lung cancers depends on the status of the lymph 
recommended for those with positive margins and an R2 resection; either nodes (eg, N0–1) and on whether patients are asymptomatic, 
sequential or concurrent chemoradiation is recommended after an R1 symptomatic, or at high or low risk of becoming symptomatic (see Multiple 
resection. Most NCCN Member Institutions favor concurrent Lung Cancers in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).937,944-946 Patients 
chemoradiation for positive margins, but sequential chemoradiation is should be evaluated in a multidisciplinary setting by surgeons, radiation 
reasonable in frailer patients.689 For those with N2 nodes and negative oncologists, and medical oncologists. In patients eligible for definitive local 
margins, sequential chemotherapy (category 1) with RT is recommended. therapy, parenchymal-sparing resection is preferred (see the Principles of 
Chemotherapy alone is recommended for those with N0–1 nodes (see the Surgical Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).936,937 VATS or 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). In patients with synchronous solitary SABR are reasonable options depending on the number and distribution of 
nodules (contralateral lung), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends the tumors requiring local treatment.947 Multiple lung nodules (eg, solid, 
treating them as 2 primary lung tumors if both are curable, even if the subsolid nodules) may also be detected on CT scans; some of these 
histology of the 2 tumors is similar (see the NCCN Guidelines for nodules can be followed with imaging, whereas others need to be biopsied 
NSCLC).934  or excised (see Incidental Lung Nodules in this Discussion and the NCCN 
Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening, available at www.NCCN.org).948  
Multiple Lung Cancers  
Patients with a history of lung cancer or those with biopsy-proven Stage IIIB and IIIC NSCLC  
synchronous lesions may be suspected of having multiple lung cancers Stage IIIB NSCLC comprises 2 unresectable groups, including: 1) T1–
(see Clinical Presentation in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).935,936 It is 2,N3 tumors; and 2) T3–4,N2 tumors; stage IIIC NSCLC includes 
important to determine whether the multiple lung cancers are metastases contralateral mediastinal nodes (T4,N3), which are also unresectable. 
or separate lung primaries (synchronous or metachronous); most multiple Surgical resection is not recommended in patients with T1–2,N3 disease. 
lung tumors are metastases.74,334,937,938 Therefore, it is essential to However, in patients with suspected N3 disease, the NCCN Guidelines 
determine the histology of the lung tumor (see Principles of Pathologic recommend pathologic confirmation of nodal status (see Pretreatment 
Review in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Infection and other benign Evaluation in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).949,950 In addition, FDG 
diseases also need to be ruled out (eg, inflammatory granulomas).939,940 PET/CT scans (if not previously done) and brain MRI with contrast should 
Although criteria have been established for diagnosing multiple lung also be included in the pretreatment evaluation. If these imaging tests are 
cancers, no definitive method has been established before treatment.940-943 negative, then treatment options for the appropriate nodal status should be 
The Martini and Melamed criteria are often used to diagnose multiple lung followed (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). If N3 disease is 
cancers as follows: 1) the histologies are different; or 2) the histologies are confirmed, definitive concurrent chemoradiation (category 1) is 
the same, but there is no lymph node involvement and no extrathoracic recommended followed by durvalumab (category 1).386,634,694,699,951-953 
metastases.943  Durvalumab is recommended (category 1) as consolidation 
immunotherapy after treatment with definitive concurrent chemoradiation 
for eligible patients with unresectable stage III NSCLC (see Durvalumab 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-71 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
and Chemoradiation: Trial Data in this Discussion and the NCCN Limited Metastatic Disease  
Guidelines for NSCLC).313 Durvalumab is not recommended for patients In general, systemic therapy is recommended for patients with metastatic 
who have had definitive surgical resection. If patients will be receiving disease (see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the 
durvalumab but have not received full-dose chemotherapy concurrently NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).781 In addition, palliative treatment, including 
with RT, the NCCN NSCLC Panel does not recommend an additional 2 RT, may be needed during the disease course to treat localized 
cycles of full-dose chemotherapy (ie, consolidation chemotherapy) based symptoms, diffuse brain metastases, or bone metastases (see Therapy for 
on concerns that adding consolidation chemotherapy will increase the Recurrence and Metastasis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). This 
risk of pneumonitis if patients are also receiving durvalumab. If patients section focuses on patients with limited metastatic disease; management 
will not be receiving durvalumab because of medical contraindications or of widespread distant metastases is described in another section (see 
other reasons, consolidation chemotherapy is an option after concurrent Treatment of Recurrences and Distant Metastases in this Discussion and 
chemoradiation if patients have not received full-dose chemotherapy Systemic Therapy for Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for 
concurrently with RT. For metastatic disease that is confirmed by FDG NSCLC).  
PET/CT scan and brain MRI with contrast, treatment is described in the 
NCCN Guidelines for limited or metastatic disease.  Pleural or pericardial effusion is a criterion for stage IV, M1a disease. T4 
with pleural effusion is classified as stage IV, M1a (see Table 3 in Staging 
For patients with T4,N2–3 disease (stages IIIB and IIIC), surgical resection in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).141 Pleural or pericardial effusions are 
is not recommended. The initial workup includes biopsies of the N3 and malignant in 90% to 95% of patients; however, they may be related to 
N2 nodes. If these biopsies are negative, the same treatment options may obstructive pneumonitis, atelectasis, lymphatic or venous obstruction, or a 
be used as for stage IIIA (T4,N0–1) disease (see the NCCN Guidelines for pulmonary embolus. Therefore, pathologic confirmation of a malignant 
NSCLC). If either the contralateral or ipsilateral mediastinal node is effusion by using thoracentesis or pericardiocentesis is recommended. In 
positive, definitive concurrent chemoradiation therapy is recommended certain cases where thoracentesis is inconclusive, thoracoscopy may be 
(category 1) followed by durvalumab (see the NCCN Guidelines for performed. In the absence of nonmalignant causes (eg, obstructive 
NSCLC).386,634,694,699,951-954 Again, durvalumab is recommended (category pneumonia), an exudate or sanguinous effusion is considered malignant 
1) as consolidation immunotherapy after treatment with definitive regardless of the results of cytologic examination. If the pleural or 
concurrent chemoradiation for eligible patients with unresectable stage III pericardial effusion is considered negative for malignancy (M0), 
NSCLC.313 Two additional cycles of full-dose chemotherapy (consolidation recommended treatment is based on the confirmed T and N stage (see 
chemotherapy) may be given if full-dose chemotherapy was not given the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). All pleural or pericardial effusions, 
concurrently with RT; however, consolidation chemotherapy is not whether malignant or not, are associated with unresectable disease in 
recommended if patients will be receiving durvalumab.  95% of cases.955 In patients with effusions that are positive for malignancy, 
the tumor is defined as M1a and is treated with local therapy (ie, 
ambulatory small catheter drainage, pleurodesis, and pericardial window) 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-72 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
in addition to treatment as for stage IV disease (see the NCCN Guidelines histologies in the NCCN Guidelines. For the 2020 update (Version 1), the 
for NSCLC).956  NCCN NSCLC Panel preference stratified all the systemic therapy 
regimens and decided that cisplatin combined with pemetrexed is 
Management of patients with distant metastases in limited sites (ie, stage preferred for nonsquamous NSCLC, whereas cisplatin combined with 
IVA,M1b) and good PS depends on the location and number of the either gemcitabine or docetaxel is preferred for squamous cell NSCLC 
metastases; the diagnosis is aided by mediastinoscopy, bronchoscopy, (see Chemotherapy Regimens for Neoadjuvant and Adjuvant Therapy in 
FDG PET/CT scan, and brain MRI with contrast. The increased sensitivity the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).668,673,704 Cisplatin combined with either 
of FDG PET/CT scans, compared with other imaging methods, may vinorelbine or etoposide are “other recommended” options. For patients 
identify additional metastases and, thus, spare some patients from with comorbidities or those who cannot tolerate cisplatin, carboplatin may 
unnecessary futile surgery. Positive FDG PET/CT scan findings for distant be combined with pemetrexed (nonsquamous only), paclitaxel, or 
disease need pathologic or other radiologic confirmation. If the FDG gemcitabine; thus, these regimens are useful in certain 
PET/CT scan is positive in the mediastinum, the lymph node status needs circumstances.668,960 These regimens that are used for preoperative and 
pathologic confirmation. Patients with limited oligometastatic disease (eg, postoperative chemotherapy may also be used for sequential 
brain metastases) and otherwise limited disease in the chest may benefit chemoradiation.674-677  
from aggressive local therapy to both the primary chest and metastatic 
sites.514,957 Clinicians are not using whole brain RT as often in patients with Because patients with stage III disease have both local and distant 
limited brain metastases because of concerns about neurocognitive failures, theoretically, the use of chemotherapy may eradicate 
problems.599 Therefore, the NCCN NSCLC Panel has decreased the micrometastatic disease obviously present but undetectable at diagnosis. 
recommendations for whole brain RT to treat limited brain metastases The timing of this chemotherapy varies (see the NCCN Guidelines for 
(see Whole Brain RT and Stereotactic Radiosurgery in this Discussion NSCLC). Such chemotherapy may be given alone, sequentially, or 
text). Aggressive local therapy may comprise surgery and/or definitive RT, concurrently with RT. In addition, chemotherapy could be given 
including SRS and SABR, and may be preceded or followed by preoperatively or postoperatively in appropriate patients. Three phase 3 
chemotherapy. After progression on TKIs, patients with EGFR mutation– trials have assessed preoperative chemotherapy followed by surgery 
positive metastatic NSCLC may be able to continue with their current compared with surgery alone in the treatment of stage III NSCLC.629,961-963 
TKIs; local therapy can be considered to treat their limited metastases (eg, All 3 studies showed a survival advantage for patients who received 
SRS to brain metastases or other sites, SABR for thoracic disease).958,959  preoperative chemotherapy. SWOG S9900—one of the largest 
randomized trials examining preoperative chemotherapy in early-stage 
Preoperative and Postoperative Treatment  NSCLC—assessed surgery alone compared with surgery plus 
Chemotherapy or Chemoradiation preoperative paclitaxel/carboplatin in patients with stage IB/IIA and stage 
On the basis of clinical studies,622-624 the NCCN NSCLC Panel IIB/IIIA NSCLC (excluding superior sulcus tumors). PFS and overall 
survival were improved with preoperative chemotherapy.962,963
recommends cisplatin combined with docetaxel, etoposide, gemcitabine,  The 2 
or vinorelbine for preoperative and postoperative chemotherapy for all earlier phase 3 studies had a small number of patients, while the SWOG 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-73 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
study was stopped early because of the positive results of the IALT study. chemoradiation is recommended for an R2 resection (see the NCCN 
A number of phase 2 studies have evaluated preoperative chemotherapy Guidelines for NSCLC). Patients with negative margins may be treated 
for stage III NSCLC, with (or without) RT, followed by surgery.964-966 with either 1) chemotherapy (category 1); or 2) sequential chemotherapy 
plus RT (adding RT is for N2 only).663  
Post-surgical treatment options for patients with stage IA tumors 
(T1abc,N0) and with positive surgical margins (R1, R2) include For stage IIIA superior sulcus tumors (T4 extension,N0–1) that become 
re-resection (preferred) or RT (category 2B); observation is recommended resectable after preoperative concurrent chemoradiation, resection 
for patients with negative surgical margins (R0). Postoperative followed by chemotherapy is recommended (see the NCCN Guidelines for 
chemotherapy is a category 2A recommendation for patients with T2ab,N0 NSCLC). Surgical reevaluation (including chest CT with or without contrast 
tumors and negative surgical margins who have high-risk features, and with or without PET/CT) is done to determine whether the tumor is 
including poorly differentiated tumors, vascular invasion, wedge resection, resectable after treatment. If the lesion remains unresectable after 
tumors >4 cm, visceral pleural involvement, and unknown lymph node preoperative concurrent chemoradiation, then adjuvant treatment with 
status (Nx) (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).667,967 If the surgical durvalumab (category 1) is recommended for eligible patients. Among 
margins are positive in patients with T2ab,N0 tumors, options include: 1) patients with chest wall lesions with T3 invasion–T4 extension,N0–1 
re-resection (preferred) with (or without) chemotherapy; or 2) RT with (or disease, those who are initially treated with surgery (preferred) may 
without) chemotherapy (chemotherapy is recommended for T2b,N0).403,667  receive chemotherapy alone if the surgical margins are negative. When 
surgical margins are positive, they may receive either 1) sequential or 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends chemotherapy (category 1) for concurrent chemoradiation; or 2) re-resection and chemotherapy. As 
patients with negative surgical margins and stage IIB disease, including 1) previously mentioned, most NCCN Member Institutions favor concurrent 
T1abc–T2a,N1; 2) T2b,N1; or 3) T3,N0 disease.663,968 If surgical margins chemoradiation for positive margins, but sequential is reasonable in frailer 
are positive in these patients, options after an R1 resection include: 1) patients.689 A similar treatment plan is recommended for resectable tumors 
re-resection and chemotherapy; or 2) chemoradiation (either sequential or of the proximal airway or mediastinum (T3–4,N0–1).  
concurrent). Options after an R2 resection include: 1) re-resection and 
chemotherapy; or 2) concurrent chemoradiation. Most NCCN Member For patients with stage III disease and positive mediastinal nodes (T1–
Institutions favor concurrent chemoradiation for positive margins, but 3,N2) with no apparent disease progression after initial treatment, 
sequential chemoradiation is reasonable in frailer patients.689 recommended treatment includes surgery with (or without) RT (if not given 
Postoperative chemotherapy can also be used in patients with stage III preoperatively) (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Alternatively, if the 
NSCLC who have had surgery (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). disease progresses, patients may be treated with either 1) local therapy 
Patients with T1–3,N2 or T3,N1 disease (discovered only at surgical using RT (if not given previously) with (or without) chemotherapy; or 2) 
exploration and mediastinal lymph node dissection) and positive margins systemic therapy. In patients with separate pulmonary nodules in the 
may be treated with chemoradiation; either sequential or concurrent same lobe (T3,N0–1) or ipsilateral non-primary lobe (T4,N0–1), surgery is 
chemoradiation is recommended for an R1 resection, whereas concurrent recommended. In patients with N2 disease and negative margins, options 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-74 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
include 1) chemotherapy (category 1); or 2) sequential chemotherapy with and the setting (eg, N2 disease) (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). 
radiation. If the resection margins are positive in patients with N2 disease, Concurrent chemo/RT is recommended for R2 resections, whereas either 
concurrent chemoradiation is recommended for an R2 resection, whereas sequential or concurrent chemo/RT is recommended for R1 resections. 
either concurrent or sequential chemoradiation is recommended for an R1 Concurrent chemoradiation is often used for positive margins, but 
resection. Concurrent chemoradiation is often used for positive margins, sequential is reasonable in frailer patients.689 Cisplatin/etoposide and 
but sequential is reasonable in frailer patients.  carboplatin/paclitaxel are chemoradiation regimens recommended by the 
NCCN NSCLC Panel for all histologies (see Chemotherapy Regimens 
Radiation Therapy Used with Radiation Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).693 
After complete resection of clinical early-stage NSCLC, postoperative RT Pemetrexed with either cisplatin or carboplatin may be used for concurrent 
has been found to be detrimental for pathologic N0 or N1 stage disease in chemoradiation in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC.696,974,975 When 
a meta-analysis (population-based analysis of data from SEER) of small chemoradiation is recommended in the NCCN Guidelines, these regimens 
randomized trials using older techniques and dosing regimens .969 There may be used for stage II to III disease.404,405,634,635,694,697,698  
was an apparent survival benefit of postoperative RT in patients with N2 
nodal stage diagnosed surgically.504 The analysis of the ANITA trial also PROCLAIM, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed concurrent thoracic RT 
found that postoperative RT increased survival in patients with N2 disease with cisplatin/pemetrexed versus cisplatin/etoposide followed by 
who received chemotherapy.403 A review of the National Cancer Database consolidation chemotherapy in patients with unresectable stage III 
concluded that postoperative RT and chemotherapy provided a survival nonsquamous NSCLC.691 Both regimens were equivalent in terms of 
advantage for patients with completely resected N2 disease when survival, but the cisplatin/pemetrexed regimen was associated with less 
compared with chemotherapy alone.970 A meta-analysis also concluded neutropenia (24.4% vs. 44.5%; P < .001) and fewer grade 3 to 4 adverse 
that postoperative RT improves survival for patients with N2 disease.971 A events (64.0% vs. 76.8%; P = .001). The NCCN NSCLC Panel deleted the 
cisplatin/etoposide consolidation regimen based on the PROCLAIM trial.691
meta-analysis assessed postoperative chemotherapy with (or without)  
postoperative RT in patients with mainly stage III disease.968 In this In addition, the NCCN NSCLC Panel clarified that the cisplatin/pemetrexed 
meta-analysis, 70% of the eligible trials used sequential chemotherapy and carboplatin/paclitaxel regimens may be followed by consolidation 
before RT; 30% used concurrent chemo/RT. Regimens included chemotherapy alone for eligible patients receiving definitive 
cisplatin/vinorelbine followed by RT or concurrent cisplatin/etoposide. The chemoradiation; however, these consolidation chemotherapy regimens 
ACR Appropriateness Criteria provide specific recommendations for should not be used if the patient will be receiving durvalumab.  
postoperative therapy.972,973  Surveillance  
Postoperative sequential chemotherapy with RT is recommended for Because recurrence is common after treatment for NSCLC, initial 
patients with T1–3, N2 disease and negative margins (see the NCCN surveillance with history and physical (H&P) and chest CT (with or without 
Guidelines for NSCLC). Either concurrent or sequential chemoradiation contrast) is recommended in the NCCN Guidelines. Data from randomized 
may be used for postoperative therapy, depending on the type of resection phase 3 trials are not available to clarify surveillance recommendations; 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-75 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
therefore, the most appropriate schedules are controversial.976-980 The without symptoms. But, PET may be useful for assessing CT scans that 
surveillance guidelines were compiled by polling the NCCN NSCLC Panel appear to show malignant neoplasms but may be radiation fibrosis, 
regarding their practice patterns. Details regarding the specific atelectasis, or other benign conditions. Areas previously treated with RT 
surveillance schedules for patients with no clinical or radiographic may remain FDG avid for up to 2 years; therefore, histologic confirmation 
evidence of disease after completion of definitive therapy are outlined in of apparent “recurrent” disease is needed.985 For the 2020 update (Version 
the algorithm based on stage (see Surveillance in the NCCN Guidelines 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel now recommends assessing patients with 
for NSCLC). Surveillance schedules for most patients with metastatic recurrences using PET/CT and brain MRI with contrast. Information about 
disease are individualized for each patient, although the NCCN Guidelines smoking cessation (eg, advice, counseling, therapy) should be provided 
provide a surveillance schedule for certain patients with stage IV for patients undergoing surveillance to improve their quality of life. 
oligometastatic disease.  
The NCCN Guidelines include information about the long-term follow-up 
NLST, a large randomized trial, assessed lung screening with low-dose care of NSCLC survivors (see Cancer Survivorship Care in the NCCN 
CT screening versus chest radiography in individuals at high risk for lung Guidelines for NSCLC). These recommendations include guidelines for 
cancer.66 Low-dose CT screening decreased mortality from lung cancer routine cancer surveillance, immunizations, health monitoring, counseling 
(mainly adenocarcinoma) compared with chest radiography (247 vs. 309 for wellness and health promotion, and cancer screening. An analysis 
deaths, respectively; 20% relative reduction in mortality; 95% CI, 6.8–26.7; suggests that patients who survive lung cancer have a high symptom 
P = .004).66 Low-dose CT is recommended for screening individuals at burden 1 year after diagnosis and therefore need management after 
high risk for lung cancer (see the NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer treatment.986  
Screening). The NCCN NSCLC Panel feels that low-dose CT is beneficial 
for identifying recurrences in patients previously treated for NSCLC. It is Treatment of Recurrences and Distant Metastases 
important to note that the surveillance recommendations for patients who Recurrences are subdivided into locoregional recurrences and distant 
have been treated for NSCLC are different from the screening metastases. Management of locoregional recurrences or symptomatic 
recommendations for individuals at high risk for lung cancer (see the local disease—endobronchial obstruction, mediastinal lymph node 
NCCN Guidelines for Lung Cancer Screening). recurrence, superior vena cava (SVC) obstructions, severe hemoptysis—
is described in the NCCN Guidelines (see Therapy for Recurrence and 
The NCCN Guidelines recommend a chest CT scan with (or without) Metastasis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).20 An SVC stent may be 
contrast and an H&P for the initial surveillance schedules (2–5 years) used with either concurrent chemoradiation or RT to treat SVC 
followed by an annual low-dose non-contrast–enhanced CT and an H&P obstruction. For patients with endobronchial obstruction, relieving airway 
(see Surveillance in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).978,979,981-984 Patients obstruction may increase survival, especially in patients who are severely 
treated with chemotherapy with (or without) RT who have residual compromised, and may improve their quality of life.987 After treatment for 
abnormalities may require more frequent imaging. FDG PET/CT or brain the locoregional recurrence, observation or systemic therapy (category 2B 
MRI is not routinely recommended for routine surveillance in patients for systemic therapy) is recommended if disseminated disease is not 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-76 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
evident. Systemic therapy is recommended for disseminated disease. The expertise because of the potential for severe toxicity with high cumulative 
type of systemic therapy depends on the histologic type, whether genetic radiation doses to critical structures.414,558-560,996-999  
variants are present that can be treated with targeted therapy, and PS 
(see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN In patients with NSCLC who have bone metastases, data suggest that 
Guidelines for NSCLC). The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends (category denosumab increases median overall survival when compared with 
zoledronic acid (9.5 vs. 8 months).1000
2A) response assessment after 2 cycles of systemic therapy, then after  Denosumab and bisphosphonate 
every 2 to 4 cycles of therapy or when clinically indicated; assessment is therapy can be associated with severe hypocalcemia; patients with 
done using CT with (or without contrast) of known sites of disease.225,988-990  hypoparathyroidism and vitamin D deficiency are at increased risk for 
hypocalcemia. Denosumab or intravenous bisphosphonate therapy can 
Management of distant metastases—localized symptoms; bone, limited, be considered in patients with bone metastases to decrease bone 
diffuse brain, or disseminated metastases—is described in the NCCN complications (eg, decrease pain, delay skeletal-related events) based on 
Guidelines (see Therapy for Recurrence and Metastasis in the NCCN clinical trial data.158,1000-1004 The FDA has approved the use of zoledronic 
Guidelines for NSCLC). Palliation of symptoms throughout the disease acid and denosumab in patients with bone metastases from solid 
course can be achieved with external-beam RT for distant metastases with tumors.1005,1006  
localized symptoms, diffuse brain metastases, or bone metastases 
(bisphosphonate or denosumab therapy can be considered).417,509,991 For For patients with recurrent and metastatic disease, the NCCN Guidelines 
patients at risk of fracture in weight-bearing bone, orthopedic stabilization recommend that histologic subtype should be determined before therapy 
and palliative RT are recommended.  so that the best treatment can be selected (see Metastatic Disease: 
Histologic Subtype in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).704 In addition, 
Of note, recurrent and metastatic disease have historically been regarded biomarker testing for genetic variants (ie, oncogenic driver events) is 
as incurable. However, selected limited locoregional recurrences may be recommended in patients with NSCLC, because targeted therapy has 
treated with curative intent therapy (surgery or RT with [or without] been shown to decrease tumor burden, decrease symptoms, and 
chemotherapy) (see Therapy for Recurrence and Metastasis in the NCCN dramatically improve the quality of life for patients with specific genetic 
Guidelines for NSCLC). Similarly, patients with limited-site oligometastatic variants. The number of available targeted agents is increasing. In the 
disease and good PS may benefit from aggressive local therapies to the NCCN Guidelines, several targeted agents are recommended for first-line 
metastatic and primary sites, with clinical data suggesting the possibility of therapy in patients with specific genetic variants such as erlotinib, gefitinib, 
long-term survival (see Initial Treatment for Stage IVA, M1b in the NCCN afatinib, osimertinib, dacomitinib, alectinib, ceritinib, brigatinib, and 
Guidelines for NSCLC).547,548,551,581,992-995 In addition, emerging clinical data crizotinib.781 Additional targeted therapies for patients with other genetic 
suggest the feasibility of definitive reirradiation of local recurrences within variants are also recommended, although there is less evidence for these 
prior RT fields using highly conformal techniques, although this should be agents and they have not been FDA approved for lung cancer (see 
limited to highly selected cases in specialty centers with appropriate Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for Patients with 
Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Certain targeted 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-77 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
therapies—such as ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib, lorlatinib, and assess whether patients are candidates for pembrolizumab (see 
osimertinib—are recommended as subsequent therapies (if not previously Pembrolizumab in this Discussion).  
given) for patients with the indicated genetic variants whose disease 
becomes resistant to first-line targeted therapies; other targeted therapies The following targeted agents are recommended (category 2A) for patients 
are being investigated for resistance.  with emerging genetic variants: 1) crizotinib (for high-level MET 
amplification 2) ado-trastuzumab for ERBB2 mutations; 3) nivolumab with 
Biomarker testing for genetic variants is recommended in the NCCN or without ipilimumab for patients with 
Guidelines based on the improved outcomes associated with use of TMB.102,107,151-153,168,169,177,181,206,289-291,304,746,788,791,827,830,835,836,1009-1020 The 
targeted therapy in eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC (see Principles NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends crizotinib for high-level MET 
of Molecular and Biomarker Analysis in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC amplification based on data from several studies.289,1021,1022 The NCCN 
and Predictive and Prognostic Biomarkers in this Discussion). It is NSCLC Panel recommends ado-trastuzumab emtansine (category 2A) for 
important to note that 1) several different tests may be used to identify the patients with ERBB2 (also known as HER2) mutations based on results 
same biomarker, including FDA-approved biomarker tests and validated from a phase 2 basket trial.178,1011 The partial response rate was 44% 
laboratory tests done in CLIA-approved laboratories; and 2) biomarker (95% CI, 22%–69%). The median PFS was 5 months (95% CI, 3–9). 
testing is rapidly changing and improving. EGFR mutation testing Minor toxicities (grade 1–2) included infusion reactions, thrombocytopenia, 
(category 1) is recommended in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC (ie, and transaminitis; no treatment-related deaths were reported. Patients (n 
adenocarcinoma, large cell carcinoma) or NSCLC NOS, because EGFR = 18) were mostly women (72%), nonsmokers, and all had 
TKIs are recommended for patients who are positive for sensitizing EGFR adenocarcinomas. The NCCN NSCLC Panel does not recommend 
mutations (see EGFR Mutation Positive/First-Line Therapy in the NCCN single-agent therapy with trastuzumab or afatinib (both for ERBB2 
Guidelines for NSCLC).105,200,209,212,1007 Testing for ALK fusions (category mutations), because response rates are lower and treatment is less 
1) is also recommended in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC, because effective when these agents are used for patients with ERBB2 
ALK inhibitors are recommended for patients with metastatic NSCLC who mutations.1023,1024  
are positive for ALK fusions.160,1008 The NCCN NSCLC Panel also 
recommends testing for ROS1 fusions (category 2A). Testing for ROS1 As previously mentioned, recommendations from an international panel 
has typically been done using FISH; a validated NGS platform that can suggest that general histologic categories be avoided in patients with 
detect this gene fusion may also be used.271 The NCCN NSCLC Panel NSCLC (eg, NSCLC), because more effective treatment can be selected 
recommends that EGFR and BRAF mutation testing be done as part of when the histology is known.74 Patients with pure squamous cell 
broad molecular profiling (eg, multiplex mutation screening assays or carcinoma do not seem to have ALK fusions, ROS1 fusions, RET 
NGS). Testing for ALK gene fusions can be done with FISH or with NGS if rearrangements, sensitizing EGFR mutations, METex14 skipping 
the platform is validated and can identify gene fusions.181,198,199 The NCCN mutations, or BRAF V600E mutations; therefore, routine molecular testing 
is not recommended in these patients.161,163,1025,1026
NSCLC Panel also recommends upfront PD-L1 expression testing  However, molecular 
(category 1) before first-line therapy in patients with metastatic NSCLC to testing for ALK fusions, ROS1 fusions, RET rearrangements, BRAF 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-78 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
mutations, METex14 skipping mutations, or EGFR mutations can be Compendium®] for NSCLC, and the NCCN Guidelines with Evidence 
considered in patients with squamous cell carcinomas whose histology Blocks™ for NSCLC).704  
was determined using small biopsy specimens or mixed histology 
specimens.161 Molecular testing for EGFR mutations or ALK fusions can For patients with metastatic NSCLC and contraindications to 
also be considered in patients who never smoked. Treatment pembrolizumab or other ICIs, chemotherapy options are recommended 
recommendations and eligibility criteria are described in the NCCN (such as carboplatin/paclitaxel), although some regimens may be more 
Guidelines for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC (or NSCLC NOS) with appropriate for certain patients, depending on histology, PS, and other 
negative test results for ALK fusions or sensitizing EGFR mutations and factors (see Trial Data in this Discussion, and Systemic Therapy for 
with PD-L1 expression less than 1%. Treatment recommendations and Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC, the 
eligibility criteria for patients with squamous cell carcinoma are also NCCN Compendium® for NSCLC, and the NCCN Guidelines with 
Evidence Blocks™ for NSCLC).781,1027
described in the NCCN Guidelines. These recommendations are briefly  Chemotherapy with or without 
summarized in the following paragraphs. Data supporting these bevacizumab is an option if eligibility criteria are met for patients with 
recommendations are described in the following section (see Trial Data in nonsquamous NSCLC and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, 
this Discussion).  METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants and with PD-L1 expression 
less than 1%.1028 Previously, patients with brain metastases were 
Chemotherapy/immunotherapy regimens are recommended for patients excluded from receiving bevacizumab because of concerns about CNS 
without genetic variants (see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or hemorrhage; however, data suggest that bevacizumab can be used in 
Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Single-agent patients with treated CNS metastases.1029 A phase 3 randomized trial in 
targeted therapy is recommended for patients with EGFR, ALK, BRAF elderly patients (70–89 years) with advanced NSCLC reported that 
V600E, METex14 skipping, RET, or ROS1 variants or other emerging combined therapy with weekly paclitaxel and monthly carboplatin 
driver mutations (see Targeted Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic improved survival when compared with single-agent therapy using either 
Disease and Emerging Biomarkers to Identify Novel Therapies for Patients gemcitabine or vinorelbine (10.3 vs. 6.2 months).1030 Systemic therapy for 
with Metastatic NSCLC in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).  elderly patients with advanced NSCLC needs to be carefully selected to 
avoid adverse reactions.1031 The NCCN NSCLC Panel previously revised 
Chemotherapy/immunotherapy regimens, such as the lists of recommended doublet and single-agent cytotoxic 
pembrolizumab/carboplatin (or cisplatin)/pemetrexed, are recommended chemotherapy regimens for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC or 
for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and negative test results for NSCLC NOS—who are negative for mutations, fusions, or PD-L1 
EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF genetic variants expression—by deleting regimens that are rarely used in the United 
(also known as wild-type), regardless of PD-L1 expression (see Systemic States. Deleted regimens include carboplatin/vinorelbine, 
Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for cisplatin/vinorelbine, etoposide, irinotecan, and vinorelbine. 
NSCLC, the NCCN Drugs & Biologics Compendium [NCCN 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-79 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
For patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC and negative test paclitaxel), pemetrexed, and vinorelbine (see Systemic Therapy for 
results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for 
and with PD-L1 expression less than 1%, chemotherapy/immunotherapy NSCLC).668,673,702-704,711,712,732 Carboplatin-based regimens are often used 
regimens—such as pembrolizumab/carboplatin with either paclitaxel or for patients with comorbidities or those who cannot tolerate cisplatin.1034 
albumin-bound paclitaxel—are recommended (category 1; preferred). For Non-platinum regimens (eg, gemcitabine/docetaxel, 
patients with metastatic squamous cell NSCLC who have gemcitabine/vinorelbine) are reasonable alternatives, because data show 
contraindications to pembrolizumab, recommended options include they are active and less toxic than platinum-based regimens.714-717,1035  
cisplatin/gemcitabine (category 1).704 Carboplatin/paclitaxel, 
carboplatin/gemcitabine (category 1 for both), and other regimens listed in ECOG 4599, a phase 2/3 trial, randomly assigned 878 patients to either 1) 
the NSCLC algorithm are also recommended (see Systemic Therapy for bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel/carboplatin; or 2) 
Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC, the paclitaxel/carboplatin alone.720,1036 Both regimens were well tolerated with 
NCCN Compendium® for NSCLC, and the NCCN Guidelines with selected toxicities. Patients receiving bevacizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin 
Evidence Blocks™ for NSCLC). The NCCN NSCLC Panel previously showed an improved median survival (12.3 vs. 10.3 months, P = .003) 
revised the lists of recommended doublet cytotoxic therapy regimens by when compared to patients receiving paclitaxel/carboplatin alone.720 The 
deleting regimens that are rarely used for patients with metastatic overall 1-year and 2-year survival were 51% versus 44% and 23% versus 
squamous cell NSCLC and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, 15%, respectively, in favor of the bevacizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin 
METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants and with PD-L1 expression arm.720 More significant toxicities were observed with 
less than 1%. Deleted regimens include carboplatin/etoposide, bevacizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin compared to paclitaxel/carboplatin 
carboplatin/vinorelbine, cisplatin/vinorelbine, (grade 4 neutropenia: 25.5% vs. 16.8%; grade 5 hemoptysis: 1.2% vs. 0%; 
cisplatin/gemcitabine/necitumumab, etoposide, irinotecan, and vinorelbine. and grade 3 hypertension: 6.8% vs. 0.5%). Treatment-related deaths were 
Regimens containing pemetrexed or bevacizumab are not recommended more common with bevacizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin (15 patients) than 
for squamous cell carcinoma. Currently, fewer treatment options are with paclitaxel/carboplatin (2 patients) (P = .001). An analysis of ECOG 
available for patients with squamous cell carcinoma compared with 4599 found that patients with adenocarcinoma histology receiving 
nonsquamous NSCLC. Research is ongoing to find newer bevacizumab/paclitaxel/carboplatin had improved survival compared with 
options.7,102,199,1032,1033  chemotherapy alone (14.2 vs. 10.3 months).1028 AVAiL, a phase 3 
randomized trial, compared cisplatin/gemcitabine with (or without) 
Trial Data bevacizumab; survival was not increased with the addition of 
Data show that platinum-based combination therapy is superior to best bevacizumab.1037,1038 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends that 
supportive care for patients with advanced, incurable disease who are not bevacizumab biosimilars may be used in any of the systemic therapy 
eligible for targeted therapy or immunotherapy. Cisplatin or carboplatin regimens containing bevacizumab (eg, carboplatin plus paclitaxel plus 
have been proven effective in combination with many of the following bevacizumab) that are used for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC 
agents: docetaxel, etoposide, gemcitabine, paclitaxel (and albumin-bound based on clinical data and FDA approvals.753-757  
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-80 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
A noninferiority trial in 1725 patients with advanced NSCLC (either stage toxic than taxane-based regimens. Thus, data suggesting that more than 6 
IIIB or IV; most were stage IV) assessed cisplatin/gemcitabine compared cycles of first-line chemotherapy are not appropriate may only apply to 
with cisplatin/pemetrexed.704 Patients with either adenocarcinoma or large taxane-based regimens.724 Studies report that 60% of patients were able 
cell carcinoma (ie, nonsquamous NSCLC) had improved survival with to receive 6 cycles of pemetrexed-based chemotherapy (and had a low 
cisplatin/pemetrexed (adenocarcinoma: 12.6 vs. 10.9 months). Patients incidence of toxicity), whereas only 42% were able to receive more than 5 
with squamous cell carcinoma had improved survival with the cycles of taxane-based chemotherapy and often stopped therapy because 
cisplatin/gemcitabine regimen (10.8 vs. 9.4 months). When compared with of neurotoxicity.721,878  
the cisplatin/gemcitabine regimen, the cisplatin/pemetrexed regimen had 
significantly lower rates of grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, anemia, and The NCCN Guidelines recommend that patients receiving first-line 
thrombocytopenia (P ≤ .001); febrile neutropenia (P = .002); and alopecia systemic therapy for advanced disease should be evaluated for tumor 
(P < .001). Treatment-related deaths were similar for both regimens response with a CT scan. Response assessment should occur after 2 
(cisplatin/pemetrexed, 9 patients [1.0%]; cisplatin/gemcitabine, 6 patients cycles and then every 2 to 4 cycles using CT of known sites of disease 
(with or without contrast) or when clinically indicated.225,988-990
[0.7%]). An analysis of three phase 3 trials confirmed that pemetrexed  
improves survival for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC in first-line, Approximately 25% of patients show disease progression after the initial 
subsequent, and maintenance therapy.1039  cycle of chemotherapy; subsequent therapy is recommended for these 
patients (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). Patients with responsive 
Number of Cycles of First-Line Systemic Therapy  or stable disease can continue to receive a total of 4 to 6 cycles of 
Data from the PARAMOUNT trial suggest that 4 cycles of platinum-based systemic therapy.644,721,1041 The NCCN Guidelines do not recommend 
therapy is not optimal;880 tumors can shrink between 4 to 6 cycles of continuing chemotherapy beyond 4 to 6 cycles. Generally, patients with 
chemotherapy. However, patients may not be able to tolerate more than 4 metastatic NSCLC receive 4 cycles of initial systemic chemotherapy (eg, 
cycles of chemotherapy, and most of the maintenance trials used only 4 carboplatin/pemetrexed/pembrolizumab for nonsquamous NSCLC) 
cycles of chemotherapy.724 A meta-analysis suggests that continuing the before starting maintenance therapy. However, if patients are tolerating 
initial regimen beyond 4 to 6 cycles is associated with increased PFS; the therapy, then 6 cycles of systemic therapy can be considered.  
however, patients have more adverse events.1040 A phase 3 randomized Maintenance Therapy  
trial suggested that continuing chemotherapy beyond 4 to 6 cycles is not 
beneficial; however, many patients assigned to a longer duration of Maintenance therapy is an option for patients with metastatic 
therapy did not receive the planned number of cycles.721,722 In this phase 3 nonsquamous NSCLC, with responsive or stable disease after first-line 
trial, taxane-based regimens were used and patients had increasing systemic chemotherapy or immunotherapy (see the NCCN Guidelines for 
neurotoxicity as more cycles were used.721  NSCLC). Continuation maintenance therapy includes bevacizumab 
(category 1), pemetrexed (category 1), bevacizumab/pemetrexed 
Many patients with adenocarcinoma receive pemetrexed-based regimens (category 2A), pembrolizumab/pemetrexed (category 1), pembrolizumab 
and not taxane-based regimens. Pemetrexed-based regimens are less (category 1), atezolizumab/bevacizumab (category 1), atezolizumab 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-81 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
(category 2A), or gemcitabine (category 2B) (see the NCCN Guidelines for the recommendation is only category 2B for maintenance therapy with 
NSCLC).672,720,726,837,880,883,884 Switch maintenance therapy for these gemcitabine. A phase 3 trial assessed switch maintenance therapy with 
patients includes pemetrexed (category 2A).672,884,887,888  docetaxel given either immediately after chemotherapy or delayed until 
progression in patients with advanced NSCLC.892 Docetaxel is 
A phase 3 randomized trial in 663 patients with advanced NSCLC recommended (category 2B) as switch maintenance therapy for with 
assessed the effect of best supportive care with (or without) switch squamous cell NSCLC based on this trial. Switch maintenance therapy 
maintenance pemetrexed in patients who had received platinum-based with docetaxel is a category 2B recommendation in the NCCN Guidelines, 
chemotherapy but had not progressed.888 Overall survival was 13.4 because many patients in the delayed chemotherapy arm did not receive 
months (95% CI, 11.9–15.9) with pemetrexed compared with 10.6 months docetaxel.1042 For patients with squamous cell NSCLC, pembrolizumab is 
(95% CI, 8.7–12.0) with placebo (HR, 0.50; 95% CI, 0.42–0.61; P < recommended as continuation maintenance therapy if patients received 
.0001). Maintenance therapy is discussed in greater detail earlier in this either pembrolizumab/carboplatin/(paclitaxel or albumin-bound 
Discussion (see Combined Modality Therapy: Maintenance Therapy).  paclitaxel) or pembrolizumab alone (see Pembrolizumab in this 
IUNO, a phase 3 randomized trial, assessed erlotinib as switch Discussion). 
maintenance therapy (and as subsequent therapy) for patients with Continuation of Targeted Therapy After Progression on Initial 
nonsquamous NSCLC and PS 0 to 2 but without EGFR mutations.890 Therapy  
Overall survival and PFS were not improved in patients receiving erlotinib Patients may continue to derive benefit from EGFR TKIs or ALK inhibitors 
when compared with placebo. The NCCN NSCLC Panel previously after disease progression on first-line therapy; discontinuation of these 
deleted the recommendation for erlotinib as switch maintenance therapy TKIs leads to more rapid progression of disease (symptoms, tumor size, 
(and as subsequent therapy) for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and FDG-avidity on PET scan) that is termed the flare phenomenon.747-750 This 
PS 0 to 2 but without EGFR mutations based on results IUNO and a strategy mirrors the experience in other oncogene-addicted cancers, such 
revised indication by the FDA.890  as ALK inhibitors.748 After development of acquired resistance in patients 
IFCT-GFPC 0502, a phase 3 randomized trial, compared maintenance with lung adenocarcinoma and sensitizing EGFR mutations, erlotinib, 
therapy with either gemcitabine or erlotinib after initial cytotoxic therapy gefitinib, afatinib, dacomitinib, or osimertinib may be continued, but 
with cisplatin-gemcitabine in patients with advanced NSCLC.672,884 osimertinib as second-line therapy is also an option for select patients; 
Continuation maintenance therapy with single-agent gemcitabine local therapy should be considered (eg, SRS to brain metastases or other 
sites, SABR for thoracic disease).586,958,959,1043,1044
increased PFS to a greater extent (3.8 months) than switch maintenance   
therapy with erlotinib (2.9 months) compared with observation (1.9 Accumulating data suggest how cancers become resistant to EGFR 
months).672,884 For patients with squamous cell NSCLC, gemcitabine inhibitors.1045 The most common known mechanism is the acquisition of 
(category 2B) is recommended as continuation maintenance therapy T790M (which is a secondary mutation in EGFR), which renders the 
based on this trial (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).884,887 The kinase resistant to erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib.1046,1047 
benefits of continuation maintenance therapy were very slight; therefore, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-82 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Therefore, if patients are T790M positive, osimertinib is recommended to derive benefit from these agents; other options are also recommended 
(category 1) and erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib are [see Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) Systemic Therapy in this 
discontinued. Amplification of the MET oncogene is another validated Discussion].  
resistance mechanism. To overcome resistance, EGFR must still be 
inhibited. In the case of MET amplification, new inhibitors must be added Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) Systemic Therapy 
to the EGFR inhibitor; EGFR inhibition is still required to induce remission. The phrase subsequent therapy was previously substituted for the terms 
Furthermore, data show that when cancers start to progress, which were second-line, third-line, and beyond systemic therapy, because the line of 
once sensitive to EGFR inhibitors, discontinuation of the EGFR TKI can therapy may vary depending on previous treatment with targeted agents. 
lead to a much more accelerated progression of the cancer.747,749 Thus, Subsequent systemic therapy regimens for patients who have disease 
continuing EGFR TKIs is beneficial in many patients even after they progression during or after first-line therapy are described in the NSCLC 
develop resistance to EGFR TKIs.1044  algorithm and depend on the specific genetic variant, the histologic 
subtype, and whether the patient has symptoms (see the NCCN 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends continuing erlotinib, gefitinib, Guidelines for NSCLC).1051-1060 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
afatinib, dacomitinib, or osimertinib and considering local therapy in response assessment of known sites of disease with CT with contrast 
patients with asymptomatic progression; however, treatment varies for every 6 to 12 weeks in patients receiving subsequent therapy. Note that 
patients with symptomatic progression (see Sensitizing EGFR Mutation traditional RECIST response criteria (1.1) are used to assess response for 
Positive: Subsequent Therapy in the NCCN Guidelines for most types of systemic therapy, but different response criteria may be 
NSCLC).1017,1043,1048-1050 Osimertinib is recommended (category 1) for useful for assessing response in patients receiving PD-1 or PD-L1 
patients with symptomatic brain metastases and T790M who have inhibitors.225,988,990,1061,1062  
progressed on erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib.226 Another option 
is to continue use of erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib for these If patients have not previously received an ICI, the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
patients with symptomatic brain metastases; additional therapy may be recommends (category 1) pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or atezolizumab as 
added or substituted (eg, local therapy, systemic therapy). First-line preferred agents for subsequent therapy in patients with metastatic 
systemic therapy options are recommended for patients with multiple NSCLC based on improved survival rates, longer duration of response, 
symptomatic lesions who are negative for T790M; osimertinib is and fewer adverse events when compared with cytotoxic chemotherapy 
recommended (category 1) as subsequent therapy for patients positive for (see Pembrolizumab, Atezolizumab, and Nivolumab with or Without 
T790M who have progressed on erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib. Ipilimumab in this Discussion).309,312,860 Human ICI antibodies inhibit the 
After progression on osimertinib, patients with sensitizing EGFR PD-1 receptor or PD-L1, which improves antitumor immunity; PD-1 
mutations may continue to derive benefit from osimertinib; other options receptors are expressed on activated cytotoxic T cells.309-311 The NCCN 
are also recommended [see Second-Line and Beyond (Subsequent) NSCLC Panel recommends nivolumab (category 1) as subsequent 
Systemic Therapy in this Discussion]. After progression on alectinib, therapy for patients with metastatic nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC 
brigatinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib, patients with ALK fusions may continue based on the CheckMate 017 and CheckMate 057 clinical trials and FDA 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-83 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
approvals.309,864 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends pembrolizumab Subsequent therapy is recommended for patients with advanced NSCLC 
(category 1) as subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic and sensitizing EGFR mutations who progress during or after first-line 
nonsquamous or squamous NSCLC and PD-L1 expression >1% based on therapy with osimertinib. Recommended subsequent therapy depends on 
the KEYNOTE-010 and KEYNOTE-001 trials, and on FDA approval.840,853 whether the progression is asymptomatic or symptomatic and includes: 1) 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends atezolizumab (category 1) as considering local therapy; and/or 2) continuing osimertinib or switching to 
subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic nonsquamous or a first-line systemic therapy regimen for nonsquamous NSCLC (such as 
squamous NSCLC based on the OAK and POPLAR trials, and FDA cisplatin/pemetrexed). There are no data to support using erlotinib, 
approval.314,839,860 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends osimertinib gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib after progression on osimertinib.  
(category 1) as subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic EGFR 
T790M-positive NSCLC who have progressed on erlotinib, gefitinib, Among patients with sensitizing EFGR mutations, no improvement in 
dacomitinib, or afatinib therapy based on clinical trial data and on the FDA overall survival has been noted in the phase 3 trials assessing subsequent 
approval (see Osimertinib in this Discussion).226,243  therapy with pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or atezolizumab compared to 
docetaxel, but there were not enough patients with these mutations to 
For patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations who progress during or after determine whether there were statistically significant 
first-line erlotinib, afatinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or osimertinib therapy, differences.309,751,840,860 The PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors were not worse than 
recommended subsequent therapy depends on whether the progression is chemotherapy and were better tolerated. In the phase 3 trials for 
asymptomatic or symptomatic and includes: 1) considering local therapy; pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or atezolizumab versus docetaxel as 
2) continuing erlotinib, afatinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or osimertinib; 3) subsequent therapy for patients with metastatic NSCLC, subset analyses 
taking osimertinib if not previously given and T790M positive; or 4) taking were done in patients with EGFR mutations to determine the best 
a first-line systemic therapy regimen for nonsquamous NSCLC, such as subsequent therapy.309,840,860 The HRs for overall survival do not favor 
cisplatin/pemetrexed. The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends osimertinib docetaxel over nivolumab (HR, 1.18; CI, 0.69–2.0), pembrolizumab (HR, 
(category 1) for patients with metastatic NSCLC and T790M who have 0.88; CI, 0.45–1.7), or atezolizumab (HR, 1.24; CI, 0.7–2.2); the CIs for 
brain metastases and have progressed on erlotinib, afatinib, dacomitinib, the HRs are wide probably because there were so few patients with EGFR 
or gefitinib.226,769-771 Data suggest that an afatinib/cetuximab regimen may mutations. The HRs for PFS do favor docetaxel for patients with EGFR 
be useful for patients who have progressed after receiving erlotinib, mutations when compared with either pembrolizumab (HR, 1.79; CI, 0.94–
afatinib, or gefitinib and after chemotherapy.1063 Patients with 3.42) or nivolumab (HR, 1.46; CI, 0.90–2.37). But again, the CIs are wide. 
T790M-positive and T790M-negative tumors had a similar response rate The evidence is weak for recommending docetaxel, pembrolizumab, 
to an afatinib/cetuximab regimen (32% vs. 25%; P = .341). The NCCN nivolumab, or atezolizumab as subsequent therapy for patients with EGFR 
NSCLC Panel recommends (category 2A) considering an mutations. A recent meta-analysis suggests that docetaxel improves 
afatinib/cetuximab regimen for patients who have progressed after overall survival when compared with pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or 
receiving erlotinib, afatinib, dacomitinib, or gefitinib and chemotherapy atezolizumab.1064 Data suggest that patients with EGFR mutations or ALK 
based on these data.  fusions have a low response rate to PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors when 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-84 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
compared with patients without these genetic variants (response rate, agent (see Oral TKIs that Inhibit MET Exon 14 Skipping Mutations in this 
3.6% vs. 23%, respectively).751,1064 Therefore, subsequent therapy with Discussion in this Discussion). The panel recommends selpercatinib, 
pembrolizumab, nivolumab, or atezolizumab is not recommended in pralsetinib, cabozantinib, or vandetanib (category 2B for vandetanib) as 
patients with EGFR mutations or ALK fusions. Patients with ALK-positive subsequent therapy options for select patients with RET rearrangement 
NSCLC and very high PD-L1 expression do not respond to positive metastatic NSCLC who have not previously received these agents 
pembrolizumab.751 In addition, those with METex14 mutations and high (see Oral TKIs that Inhibit RET Rearrangements in this Discussion).  
PD-L1 expression do not respond to immunotherapy.249,293  
Most patients with NSCLC do not have EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends lorlatinib (category 2A) as a skipping, RET, or BRAF variants. For patients with all histologic subtypes 
subsequent therapy option for select patients with ALK-positive metastatic and PS of 0 to 2 but without these genetic variants who have disease 
NSCLC who have progressed after treatment with ALK inhibitors (see progression during or after initial cytotoxic therapy, recommended 
Lorlatinib in this Discussion). For patients with ALK fusions who progress subsequent systemic therapy options include PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors 
during or after first-line targeted therapy, recommended subsequent (nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab [category 1 for all] if any 
therapy depends on whether the progression is asymptomatic or were not previously given) or chemotherapy (docetaxel with or without 
symptomatic and includes: 1) considering local therapy (eg, SABR, SRS, ramucirumab, or gemcitabine if not already given; pemetrexed is 
surgery); 2) continuing alectinib, brigatinib, crizotinib, or ceritinib; 3) taking recommended for patients with nonsquamous NSCLC) if not already 
alectinib, brigatinib, or ceritinib (if all were not previously given) or given. If ICIs have not previously been given, the NCCN NSCLC Panel 
lorlatinib; or 4) taking a first-line systemic therapy regimen for recommends (category 1) nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab as 
nonsquamous NSCLC. After further progression on subsequent targeted preferred options for subsequent therapy for all histologic subtypes based 
therapy, options include: 1) lorlatinib; or 2) first-line combination on improved survival rates, longer duration of response, and fewer 
chemotherapy options for NSCLC (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel), which are adverse events when compared with cytotoxic chemotherapy (see (see 
recommended for patients with PS of 0 to 1.158,1065 Other chemotherapy Pembrolizumab, Atezolizumab, and Nivolumab with or Without 
options are also recommended for patients with PS 2, such as docetaxel Ipilimumab in this Discussion).309,312,860  
(see Systemic Therapy for Advanced or Metastatic Disease in the NCCN 
Guidelines for NSCLC). The panel also recommends lorlatinib (category PD-1 or PD-L1 inhibitors are superior to docetaxel; however, some 
2A) as a subsequent therapy option for select patients with ROS1-positive patients cannot tolerate immunotherapy. Ramucirumab/docetaxel is an 
metastatic NSCLC who have progressed after treatment with crizotinib or option for all histologic subtypes for subsequent therapy based on a phase 
ceritinib.  3 randomized trial (see Ramucirumab in this Discussion).759 Docetaxel has 
been proven superior to best supportive care, vinorelbine, or ifosfamide 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends capmatinib or crizotinib as with improved survival and quality of life.1057,1058 When compared with 
subsequent therapy options for select patients with metastatic NSCLC and docetaxel, pemetrexed has similar median survival but less toxicity.1059,1066 
METex14 skipping mutations who have not previously received either Pemetrexed is recommended in patients with nonsquamous NSCLC.888 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-85 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Docetaxel is recommended for patients with wild-type EGFR tumors based Erlotinib and afatinib are not recommended as second-line therapy for 
on 2 randomized trials comparing erlotinib versus docetaxel.1067,1068 In patients with squamous cell NSCLC based on a phase 3 randomized trial 
patients with PS of 3 to 4, best supportive care is recommended (see the showing low response rates; they are less efficacious and safe compared 
NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC).20,651,652 Patients often have a limited to other available options.795  
response to subsequent chemotherapy other than ICIs, although 
chemotherapy may serve a useful palliative role.1069  Doublet chemotherapy options used for initial cytotoxic therapy are 
recommended for patients with metastatic NSCLC (eg, 
Subsequent therapy is recommended for certain patients after second carboplatin/paclitaxel) and genetic variants who progress with 
disease progression if the following agents have not already been given: symptomatic systemic multiple lesions after first-line targeted therapy.720 
1) nivolumab, pembrolizumab, or atezolizumab if none has been The IMPRESS trial indicated that chemotherapy should be used alone and 
previously given (all are category 2A); 2) docetaxel with or without not be combined with EGFR inhibitors, such as gefitinib, in patients who 
ramucirumab (category 2B for both); 3) gemcitabine (category 2B); or 4) have progressed on gefitinib.1072 Erlotinib, gefitinib, afatinib, dacomitinib, or 
pemetrexed (nonsquamous only) (category 2B).1052,1068,1070,1071 These osimertinib may be continued in patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations 
patients include those with advanced NSCLC, a PS of 0 to 2, and PD-L1 who have progressed after first-line therapy, depending on the type of 
less than 1%. progression.200,1017,1049,1050 Osimertinib is recommended for patients with 
T790M whose disease becomes resistant to erlotinib, afatinib, or 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel previously deleted the recommendation for gefitinib.243 Afatinib/cetuximab may be considered for second progression 
erlotinib as subsequent therapy (and as switch maintenance therapy) for for patients with sensitizing EGFR mutations who have progressed after 
patients with nonsquamous NSCLC and PS of 0 to 2 but without EGFR erlotinib, gefitinib, dacomitinib, or afatinib and after doublet 
mutations based on results from a randomized trial (IUNO) and revised chemotherapy.1063 Ceritinib, alectinib, or brigatinib are recommended in 
indication by the FDA.890 Data showed that overall survival and PFS were patients with ALK-positive NSCLC who have progressed after first-line 
not improved in patients receiving erlotinib when compared with placebo. therapy with crizotinib or for patients who are intolerant to 
The NCCN NSCLC Panel deleted erlotinib as an option for subsequent crizotinib.156,822,824 Flare phenomenon may occur in some patients who 
therapy for patients with squamous cell NSCLC based on a study discontinue EGFR or ALK inhibitors. If disease flare occurs, then EGFR or 
comparing afatinib with erlotinib; this study was statistically significant but ALK inhibitors should be restarted.747-750  
not clinically significant.795 Overall survival was 7.9 months (95% CI, 7.2–
8.7) for afatinib versus 6.8 months (95% CI, 5.9–7.8) for erlotinib (HR, For patients with metastatic NSCLC who have progressed after first-line 
0.81; 95% CI, 0.69–0.95; P = .0077); however, almost 60% of patients in therapy with single-agent pembrolizumab, platinum-based doublet therapy 
each arm had grade 3 or higher adverse events. In contrast, the median is recommended (eg, carboplatin/paclitaxel). For patients with metastatic 
overall survival was 9.2 months with nivolumab compared with 6.0 months NSCLC who have progressed after first-line therapy with PD-1/PD-L1 
for docetaxel for patients with squamous cell NSCLC.312 In addition, only inhibitors/chemotherapy, subsequent therapy with docetaxel (with or 
7% of patients receiving nivolumab had grade 3 or higher adverse events. without ramucirumab), pemetrexed (for nonsquamous only), or 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-86 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
gemcitabine is recommended. Clinical trials are also recommended in better tolerated, and these patients are unlikely to respond to 
these settings.  ICIs.249,321-323,751 For the 2020 update (Version 1, Version 4), the NCCN 
NSCLC Panel added ROS1 fusions, RET rearrangements, METex14 
Summary skipping mutations, and BRAF mutations to the list of actionable 
The NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC are updated at least once a year by the biomarkers that need to be negative before administering immunotherapy 
NCCN NSCLC Panel; there were 7 updates to the 2019 guidelines. The regimens; the complete list is as follows: EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 
Summary of the Guidelines Updates describes the most recent revisions skipping, RET, and BRAF variants.183 
to the algorithms, which have been incorporated into this updated 
Discussion text (see the NCCN Guidelines for NSCLC). A brief summary For the 2020 update (Version 2), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
of some of the recent updates is as follows: for the 2020 update (Version the following systemic therapy regimens as options for certain patients 
1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel has preference stratified the systemic therapy with metastatic NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 levels: 1) erlotinib plus either 
regimens based on the biomedical literature and experience of the panel ramucirumab (category 2A) or bevacizumab (category 2B) for EGFR 
members using the following categories: 1) preferred interventions; 2) mutation–positive metastatic disease; 2) atezolizumab plus carboplatin 
other recommended interventions; and 3) interventions that are useful in plus albumin-bound paclitaxel (category 2A) for metastatic nonsquamous 
certain circumstances. The NCCN NSCLC Panel has also preference NSCLC with negative test results for actionable genetic variants; and 3) 
stratified the new regimens that were added with each of the version nivolumab plus ipilimumab (category 2A) for metastatic nonsquamous and 
updates for 2020 (Versions 2-6). These new preference categories are squamous cell NSCLC with negative test results for actionable genetic 
intended to emphasize the preferred regimens in clinical practice and are variants.  
not intended to replace the NCCN Categories of Evidence and For the 2020 update (Version 4), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
Consensus, such as category 1 or category 2A.  capmatinib as a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option (category 
For the 2020 update (Version 1), the NCCN NSCLC Panel deleted “or 2A; preferred) for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC who are positive 
unknown” regarding test results for actionable molecular or immune for METex14 skipping mutations based on preliminary clinical trial data 
biomarkers, because the panel feels that clinicians should obtain and on the FDA approval for capmatinib.294 Crizotinib is also 
biomarker test results for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC before recommended as a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option 
administering first-line therapy, if clinically feasible.22 Patients with (category 2A; useful in certain circumstances) for certain patients with 
metastatic NSCLC who are positive for METex14 skipping mutations.295
metastatic NSCLC and PD-L1 expression levels of 1% or more—but who  
also have a targetable driver oncogene molecular variant (eg, EGFR, Capmatinib or crizotinib may be used as subsequent therapy if they were 
ALK)—should receive first-line targeted therapy for that oncogene and not not previously given as first-line therapy for METex14 skipping mutation–
first-line immunotherapy regimens, because targeted therapies yield positive metastatic NSCLC. The NCCN NSCLC Panel also preference 
higher response rates (eg, osimertinib, 80%) than immunotherapy stratified regimens that are recommended for METex14 skipping 
regimens (poor response rates) in the first-line setting, targeted therapy is mutations and voted that capmatinib is a preferred first-line therapy or 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-87 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
subsequent therapy option for METex14 skipping mutation–positive rearrangements.152,304,835 For the Version 4 and 7 updates, the NCCN 
metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial data.294 The panel voted that NSCLC Panel recommends testing for RET rearrangements (category 2A) 
crizotinib is useful in certain circumstances as either a first-line therapy or in certain patients with metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the 
subsequent therapy option for METex14 skipping mutation–positive efficacy of selpercatinib, pralsetinib, cabozantinib, and vandetanib for 
metastatic NSCLC.295 For the Version 4 update, the NCCN NSCLC Panel patients with RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC and on the 
recommends testing for METex14 skipping mutations (category 2A) in FDA approvals for selpercatinib an pralsetinib.302,303  
certain patients with metastatic NSCLC based on data showing the 
efficacy of capmatinib and crizotinib for patients with METex14 skipping For the 2020 update (Version 5), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
mutation–positive metastatic NSCLC and on the FDA approval for atezolizumab monotherapy as a first-line therapy option (category 2A; 
capmatinib.294,295  preferred) for eligible patients with metastatic NSCLC based on 
preliminary clinical trial data and on the FDA approval.858,859 Atezolizumab 
For the 2020 updates (Versions 4 and 7), the NCCN NSCLC Panel monotherapy is recommended as a first-line therapy option (category 2A; 
recommends selpercatinib or pralsetinib as a first-line therapy or preferred) for patients with metastatic NSCLC, PD-L1 levels of 50% or 
subsequent therapy options (category 2A; preferred) for eligible patients more, and negative test results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, 
with metastatic NSCLC who are positive for RET rearrangements based RET, or BRAF variants, regardless of histology; maintenance therapy with 
on preliminary clinical trial data and on the FDA approvals for both atezolizumab is also recommended in this setting. 
agents.302,303 The NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends cabozantinib as a 
first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option (category 2A; useful in For the 2020 update (Version 6), the NCCN NSCLC Panel recommends 
certain circumstances) for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic nivolumab/ipilimumab/chemotherapy as a first-line therapy option 
NSCLC.152,304 The NCCN NSCLC Panel also recommends vandetanib as (category 2A; other recommended) for eligible patients with metastatic 
NSCLC based on preliminary clinical trial data and the FDA approval.863
a first-line therapy or subsequent therapy option (category 2B; as useful in  
certain circumstances) for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic For metastatic nonsquamous NSCLC, the recommended chemotherapy is 
NSCLC.746 Selpercatinib, pralsetinib, cabozantinib, or vandetanib may be pemetrexed with either cisplatin or carboplatin; for metastatic squamous 
used as subsequent therapy if they were not previously given as first-line NSCLC, the recommended chemotherapy is paclitaxel with carboplatin. 
therapy for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC. The NCCN Nivolumab plus ipilimumab plus chemotherapy is recommended for 
NSCLC Panel also preference stratified the regimens that are patients with metastatic NSCLC, regardless of PD-L1 levels; negative test 
recommended for RET rearrangements and voted that selpercatinib and results for EGFR, ALK, ROS1, METex14 skipping, RET, or BRAF variants; 
pralsetinib are preferred first-line therapy or subsequent therapy options and no contraindications to PD-1/PD-L1 inhibitors. 
for RET rearrangement–positive metastatic NSCLC based on clinical trial 
data.302,303,833 The panel decided that cabozantinib (category 2A) and 
vandetanib (category 2B) are both useful in certain circumstances as 
either first-line therapy or subsequent therapy options for RET 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-88 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
References 50% or greater. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:537-546. Available at: 
1. Torre LA, Siegel RL, Jemal A. Lung cancer statistics. Adv Exp Med Biol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30620668. 
2016;893:1-19. Available at: 10. Ramalingam SS, Vansteenkiste J, Planchard D, et al. Overall survival 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26667336. with osimertinib in untreated, EGFR-mutated advanced NSCLC. N Engl J 
2. Siegel RL, Miller KD, Jemal A. Cancer statistics, 2020. CA Cancer J Med 2020;382:41-50. Available at: 
Clin 2020;70:7-30. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31751012. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31912902. 11. Garon EB, Hellmann MD, Rizvi NA, et al. Five-year overall survival for 
3. Howlader N, Noone AM, Krapcho M, et al. SEER Cancer Statistics patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer treated with 
Review, 1975-2016, based on November 2018 SEER data submission, pembrolizumab: Results from the phase I KEYNOTE-001 study. J Clin 
posted to the SEER web site, April 2019. Bethesda, MD: National Cancer Oncol 2019;37:2518-2527. Available at: 
Institute; 2019. Available at: https://seer.cancer.gov/csr/1975_2016/. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31154919. 
4. Brahmer JR, Govindan R, Anders RA, et al. The Society for 12. Leighl NB, Hellmann MD, Hui R, et al. Pembrolizumab in patients with 
Immunotherapy of Cancer consensus statement on immunotherapy for the advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (KEYNOTE-001): 3-year results from 
treatment of non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). J Immunother Cancer an open-label, phase 1 study. Lancet Respir Med 2019;7:347-357. 
2018;6:75. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30012210. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30876831. 
5. Johnson DH, Schiller JH, Bunn PA, Jr. Recent clinical advances in lung 13. Pacheco JM, Gao D, Smith D, et al. Natural history and factors 
cancer management. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:973-982. Available at: associated with overall survival in stage IV ALK-rearranged non-small cell 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24567433. lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:691-700. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30599201. 
6. Reck M, Heigener DF, Mok T, et al. Management of non-small-cell lung 
cancer: recent developments. Lancet 2013;382:709-719. Available at: 14. Shaw AT, Riely GJ, Bang YJ, et al. Crizotinib in ROS1-rearranged 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23972814. advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC): updated results, including 
overall survival, from PROFILE 1001. Ann Oncol 2019;30:1121-1126. 
7. Forde PM, Ettinger DS. Targeted therapy for non-small-cell lung cancer: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30980071. 
past, present and future. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther 2013;13:745-758. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23773106. 15. Lin JJ, Cardarella S, Lydon CA, et al. Five-year survival in 
EGFR-mutant metastatic lung adenocarcinoma treated with EGFR-TKIs. J 
8. Ettinger DS. Ten years of progress in non-small cell lung cancer. J Natl Thorac Oncol 2016;11:556-565. Available at: 
Compr Canc Netw 2012;10:292-295. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26724471. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22393190. 16. Singhi EK, Horn L, Sequist LV, et al. Advanced non-small cell lung 
9. Reck M, Rodriguez-Abreu D, Robinson AG, et al. Updated analysis of cancer: Sequencing agents in the EGFR-mutated/ALK-rearranged 
KEYNOTE-024: Pembrolizumab versus platinum-based chemotherapy for populations. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book 2019;39:e187-e197. Available 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer with PD-L1 tumor proportion score of at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31099642. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-89 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
17. Antonia SJ, Borghaei H, Ramalingam SS, et al. Four-year survival with 24. Subramanian J, Govindan R. Lung cancer in never smokers: a review. 
nivolumab in patients with previously treated advanced non-small-cell lung J Clin Oncol 2007;25:561-570. Available at: 
cancer: a pooled analysis. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:1395-1408. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17290066. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31422028. 
25. The Health Consequences of Smoking: A Report of the Surgeon 
18. Zhao D, Chen X, Qin N, et al. The prognostic role of EGFR-TKIs for General. (ed 2010/07/30). Atlanta (GA): U.S. Department of Health and 
patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Sci Rep 2017;7:40374. Human Services. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (US); 2004. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28079142. 
26. Secretan B, Straif K, Baan R, et al. A review of human 
19. Johung KL, Yeh N, Desai NB, et al. Extended survival and prognostic carcinogens--Part E: tobacco, areca nut, alcohol, coal smoke, and salted 
factors for patients with ALK-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer and fish. Lancet Oncol 2009;10:1033-1034. Available at: 
brain metastasis. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:123-129. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19891056. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26438117. 
27. Doll R, Peto R. Mortality in relation to smoking: 20 years' observations 
20. Simoff MJ, Lally B, Slade MG, et al. Symptom management in patients on male British doctors. Br Med J 1976;2:1525-1536. Available at: 
with lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1009386. 
American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice 
guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e455S-e497S. Available at: 28. Taylor R, Najafi F, Dobson A. Meta-analysis of studies of passive 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649452. smoking and lung cancer: effects of study type and continent. Int J 
Epidemiol 2007;36:1048-1059. Available at: 
21. Ettinger DS, Cox JD, Ginsberg RJ, et al. NCCN Non-Small-Cell Lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17690135. 
Cancer Practice Guidelines. The National Comprehensive Cancer 
Network. Oncology (Williston Park) 1996;10:81-111. Available at: 29. The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8953597. Smoke: A Report of the Surgeon General. (ed 2010/07/30). Atlanta (GA): 
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease 
22. Ettinger DS, Wood DE, Aisner DL, et al. NCCN Clinical Practice Control and Prevention; 2006. 
Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) for Non-Small Cell Lung 
Cancer (Version 3.2020). © 2020 National Comprehensive Cancer 30. Hackshaw AK, Law MR, Wald NJ. The accumulated evidence on lung 
Network, Inc. Accessed February 3, 2020. To view the most recent and cancer and environmental tobacco smoke. BMJ 1997;315:980-988. 
complete version of the NCCN Guidelines®, go online to NCCN.org. 2020. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9365295. 
Available at: www.NCCN.org. 
31. Wald NJ, Nanchahal K, Thompson SG, Cuckle HS. Does breathing 
23. Alberg AJ, Brock MV, Ford JG, et al. Epidemiology of lung cancer: other people's tobacco smoke cause lung cancer? Br Med J (Clin Res Ed) 
Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of 1986;293:1217-1222. Available at: 
Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3096439. 
2013;143:e1S-e29S. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649439. 32. Fraumeni JF, Jr. Respiratory carcinogenesis: an epidemiologic 
appraisal. J Natl Cancer Inst 1975;55:1039-1046. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1107567. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-90 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
33. Janerich DT, Thompson WD, Varela LR, et al. Lung cancer and 41. Shiels MS, Gibson T, Sampson J, et al. Cigarette smoking prior to first 
exposure to tobacco smoke in the household. N Engl J Med cancer and risk of second smoking-associated cancers among survivors of 
1990;323:632-636. Available at: bladder, kidney, head and neck, and stage I lung cancers. J Clin Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2385268. 2014;32:3989-3995. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25385740. 
34. Straif K, Benbrahim-Tallaa L, Baan R, et al. A review of human 
carcinogens--Part C: metals, arsenic, dusts, and fibres. Lancet Oncol 42. Leone FT, Evers-Casey S, Toll BA, Vachani A. Treatment of tobacco 
2009;10:453-454. Available at: use in lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19418618. American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice 
guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e61S-e77S. Available at: 
35. Driscoll T, Nelson DI, Steenland K, et al. The global burden of disease https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649454. 
due to occupational carcinogens. Am J Ind Med 2005;48:419-431. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16299703. 43. Jha P, Ramasundarahettige C, Landsman V, et al. 21st-century 
hazards of smoking and benefits of cessation in the United States. N Engl 
36. Humans IWGotEoCRt. Arsenic, metals, fibres, and dusts. IARC J Med 2013;368:341-350. Available at: 
Monogr Eval Carcinog Risks Hum 2012;100:11-465. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23343063. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23189751. 
44. Rigotti NA. Strategies to help a smoker who is struggling to quit. JAMA 
37. Omenn GS, Merchant J, Boatman E, et al. Contribution of 2012;308:1573-1580. Available at: 
environmental fibers to respiratory cancer. Environ Health Perspect https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23073954. 
1986;70:51-56. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3830113. 45. Five Major Steps to Intervention (The "5 A's"). Vol. December. 
Rockville, MD: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; 2012. 
38. Chlebowski RT, Schwartz AG, Wakelee H, et al. Oestrogen plus Available at: https://bit.ly/1jXzEvC. 
progestin and lung cancer in postmenopausal women (Women's Health 
Initiative trial): a post-hoc analysis of a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 46. Tao L, Wang R, Gao YT, Yuan JM. Impact of postdiagnosis smoking 
2009;374:1243-1251. Available at: on long-term survival of cancer patients: the Shanghai cohort study. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19767090. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev 2013;22:2404-2411. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24319070. 
39. Chlebowski RT, Anderson GL, Manson JE, et al. Lung cancer among 
postmenopausal women treated with estrogen alone in the women's 47. Marino KA, Little MA, Bursac Z, et al. Operating on patients who 
health initiative randomized trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:1413-1421. smoke: A survey of thoracic surgeons in the United States. Ann Thorac 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20709992. Surg 2016;102:911-916. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27474514. 
40. Thun MJ, Carter BD, Feskanich D, et al. 50-year trends in 
smoking-related mortality in the United States. N Engl J Med 48. Treating Tobacco Use and Dependence. Vol. April. Rockville, MD: 
2013;368:351-364. Available at: Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality; 2013. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23343064. https://bit.ly/28KMo4K. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-91 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
49. Cahill K, Stevens S, Perera R, Lancaster T. Pharmacological 57. Haber SL, Boomershine V, Raney E. Safety of varenicline in patients 
interventions for smoking cessation: an overview and network with cardiovascular disease. J Pharm Pract 2014;27:65-70. Available at: 
meta-analysis. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2013;5:CD009329. Available https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24080536. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23728690. 
58. Mills EJ, Thorlund K, Eapen S, et al. Cardiovascular events associated 
50. Koegelenberg CF, Noor F, Bateman ED, et al. Efficacy of varenicline with smoking cessation pharmacotherapies: a network meta-analysis. 
combined with nicotine replacement therapy vs varenicline alone for Circulation 2014;129:28-41. Available at: 
smoking cessation: a randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2014;312:155-161. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24323793. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25005652. 
59. Xi ZX. Preclinical pharmacology, efficacy and safety of varenicline in 
51. Walker N, Howe C, Glover M, et al. Cytisine versus nicotine for smoking cessation and clinical utility in high risk patients. Drug Healthc 
smoking cessation. N Engl J Med 2014;371:2353-2362. Available at: Patient Saf 2010;2010:39-48. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25517706. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21278851. 
52. Aubin HJ, Bobak A, Britton JR, et al. Varenicline versus transdermal 60. Gonzales D, Hajek P, Pliamm L, et al. Retreatment with varenicline for 
nicotine patch for smoking cessation: results from a randomised smoking cessation in smokers who have previously taken varenicline: a 
open-label trial. Thorax 2008;63:717-724. Available at: randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Clin Pharmacol Ther 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18263663. 2014;96:390-396. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24911368. 
53. Jorenby DE, Hays JT, Rigotti NA, et al. Efficacy of varenicline, an 
alpha4beta2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist, vs placebo or 61. Garrison GD, Dugan SE. Varenicline: a first-line treatment option for 
sustained-release bupropion for smoking cessation: a randomized smoking cessation. Clin Ther 2009;31:463-491. Available at: 
controlled trial. JAMA 2006;296:56-63. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19393839. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16820547. 
62. Hays JT, Ebbert JO. Adverse effects and tolerability of medications for 
54. Gonzales D, Rennard SI, Nides M, et al. Varenicline, an alpha4beta2 the treatment of tobacco use and dependence. Drugs 2010;70:2357-2372. 
nicotinic acetylcholine receptor partial agonist, vs sustained-release Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21142259. 
bupropion and placebo for smoking cessation: a randomized controlled 
trial. JAMA 2006;296:47-55. Available at: 63. Carney DN. Lung cancer--time to move on from chemotherapy. N Engl 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16820546. J Med 2002;346:126-128. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11784881. 
55. Cahill K, Stead LF, Lancaster T. Nicotine receptor partial agonists for 
smoking cessation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 2011:CD006103. 64. Chute JP, Chen T, Feigal E, et al. Twenty years of phase III trials for 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21328282. patients with extensive-stage small-cell lung cancer: perceptible progress. 
J Clin Oncol 1999;17:1794-1801. Available at: 
56. Ware JH, Vetrovec GW, Miller AB, et al. Cardiovascular safety of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561217. 
varenicline: patient-level meta-analysis of randomized, blinded, 
placebo-controlled trials. Am J Ther 2013;20:235-246. Available at: 65. National Lung Screening Trial Research T, Aberle DR, Berg CD, et al. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23615317. The National Lung Screening Trial: overview and study design. Radiology 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-92 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2011;258:243-253. Available at: and Radiologic Advances Since the 2004 Classification. J Thorac Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21045183. 2015;10:1243-1260. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26291008. 
66. National Lung Screening Trial Research T, Aberle DR, Adams AM, et 
al. Reduced lung-cancer mortality with low-dose computed tomographic 73. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Burke AP, et al. WHO Classification of 
screening. N Engl J Med 2011;365:395-409. Available at: Tumours of the Lung, Pleura, Thymus and Heart, Volume 7. Lyon: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21714641. International Agency for Research on Cancer; 2015:412. 
67. National Lung Screening Trial Research T, Aberle DR, Adams AM, et 74. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Noguchi M, et al. International association for 
al. Baseline characteristics of participants in the randomized national lung the study of lung cancer/american thoracic society/european respiratory 
screening trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 2010;102:1771-1779. Available at: society international multidisciplinary classification of lung 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21119104. adenocarcinoma. J Thorac Oncol 2011;6:244-285. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21252716. 
68. Detterbeck FC, Mazzone PJ, Naidich DP, Bach PB. Screening for lung 
cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American 75. Finkelstein DM, Ettinger DS, Ruckdeschel JC. Long-term survivors in 
College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: an Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Chest 2013;143:e78S-e92S. Available at: Group Study. J Clin Oncol 1986;4:702-709. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649455. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3701389. 
69. Vansteenkiste J, Crino L, Dooms C, et al. 2nd ESMO Consensus 76. Tammemagi MC, Church TR, Hocking WG, et al. Evaluation of the 
Conference on Lung Cancer: early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer lung cancer risks at which to screen ever- and never-smokers: screening 
consensus on diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol rules applied to the PLCO and NLST cohorts. PLoS Med 
2014;25:1462-1474. Available at: 2014;11:e1001764. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24562446. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25460915. 
70. Smith RA, Brooks D, Cokkinides V, et al. Cancer screening in the 77. Gould MK, Donington J, Lynch WR, et al. Evaluation of individuals with 
United States, 2013: a review of current American Cancer Society pulmonary nodules: when is it lung cancer? Diagnosis and management of 
guidelines, current issues in cancer screening, and new guidance on lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians 
cervical cancer screening and lung cancer screening. CA Cancer J Clin evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e93S-e120S. 
2013;63:88-105. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649456. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23378235. 
78. American College of Radiology. Lung CT screening reporting and data 
71. Moyer VA, Force USPST. Screening for lung cancer: U.S. Preventive system (Lung-RADS); 2016. Available at: 
Services Task Force recommendation statement. Ann Intern Med https://www.acr.org/Quality-Safety/Resources/LungRADS. 
2014;160:330-338. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24378917. 79. MacMahon H, Naidich DP, Goo JM, et al. Guidelines for management 
of incidental pulmonary nodules detected on CT images: From the 
72. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Nicholson AG, et al. The 2015 World Health Fleischner Society 2017. Radiology 2017;284:228-243. Available at: 
Organization Classification of Lung Tumors: Impact of Genetic, Clinical https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28240562. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-93 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
80. MacMahon H, Austin JH, Gamsu G, et al. Guidelines for management 88. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Noguchi M, et al. Diagnosis of lung cancer in 
of small pulmonary nodules detected on CT scans: a statement from the small biopsies and cytology: implications of the 2011 International 
Fleischner Society. Radiology 2005;237:395-400. Available at: Association for the Study of Lung Cancer/American Thoracic 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16244247. Society/European Respiratory Society classification. Arch Pathol Lab Med 
2013;137:668-684. Available at: 
81. Naidich DP, Bankier AA, MacMahon H, et al. Recommendations for https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22970842. 
the management of subsolid pulmonary nodules detected at CT: a 
statement from the Fleischner Society. Radiology 2013;266:304-317. 89. Kim HY, Shim YM, Lee KS, et al. Persistent pulmonary nodular 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23070270. ground-glass opacity at thin-section CT: histopathologic comparisons. 
Radiology 2007;245:267-275. Available at: 
82. Blagev DP, Lloyd JF, Conner K, et al. Follow-up of incidental https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17885195. 
pulmonary nodules and the radiology report. J Am Coll Radiol 
2014;11:378-383. Available at: 90. Marshall HM, Bowman RV, Yang IA, et al. Screening for lung cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24316231. with low-dose computed tomography: a review of current status. J Thorac 
Dis 2013;5 Suppl 5:S524-539. Available at: 
83. Gould MK, Tang T, Liu IL, et al. Recent trends in the identification of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24163745. 
incidental pulmonary nodules. Am J Respir Crit Care Med 
2015;192:1208-1214. Available at: 91. Brawley OW, Flenaugh EL. Low-dose spiral CT screening and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26214244. evaluation of the solitary pulmonary nodule. Oncology (Williston Park) 
2014;28:441-446. Available at: 
84. Gardiner N, Jogai S, Wallis A. The revised lung adenocarcinoma https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25004661. 
classification-an imaging guide. J Thorac Dis 2014;6:S537-546. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25349704. 92. Pinsky PF, Gierada DS, Black W, et al. Performance of Lung-RADS in 
the National Lung Screening Trial: a retrospective assessment. Ann Intern 
85. Seidelman JL, Myers JL, Quint LE. Incidental, subsolid pulmonary Med 2015;162:485-491. Available at: 
nodules at CT: etiology and management. Cancer Imaging https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25664444. 
2013;13:365-373. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24061063. 93. McKee BJ, Regis SM, McKee AB, et al. Performance of ACR 
Lung-RADS in a clinical CT lung screening program. J Am Coll Radiol 
86. Hansell DM, Bankier AA, MacMahon H, et al. Fleischner Society: 2015;12:273-276. Available at: 
glossary of terms for thoracic imaging. Radiology 2008;246:697-722. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25176499. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18195376. 
94. Kazerooni EA, Austin JH, Black WC, et al. ACR-STR practice 
87. Yankelevitz DF, Yip R, Smith JP, et al. CT screening for lung cancer: parameter for the performance and reporting of lung cancer screening 
Nonsolid nodules in baseline and annual repeat rounds. Radiology thoracic computed tomography (CT): 2014 (Resolution 4). J Thorac 
2015;277:555-564. Available at: Imaging 2014;29:310-316. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26101879. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24992501. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-94 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
95. Rivera MP, Mehta AC, Wahidi MM. Establishing the diagnosis of lung 102. Oxnard GR, Binder A, Janne PA. New targetable oncogenes in 
cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1097-1104. Available at: 
College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23401445. 
Chest 2013;143:e142S-e165S. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649436. 103. Cooper WA, O'Toole S, Boyer M, et al. What's new in non-small cell 
lung cancer for pathologists: the importance of accurate subtyping, EGFR 
96. Silvestri GA, Gonzalez AV, Jantz MA, et al. Methods for staging mutations and ALK rearrangements. Pathology 2011;43:103-115. 
non-small cell lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21233671. 
3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical 
practice guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e211S-e250S. Available at: 104. Fossella FV, Putnam JB, Komaki R, eds. Lung Cancer. M.D. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649440. Anderson Cancer Care Series. New York: Springer; 2003:316. 
97. Schwartz AM, Rezaei MK. Diagnostic surgical pathology in lung 105. Eberhard DA, Johnson BE, Amler LC, et al. Mutations in the 
cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American epidermal growth factor receptor and in KRAS are predictive and 
College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. prognostic indicators in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer treated 
Chest 2013;143:e251S-e262S. Available at: with chemotherapy alone and in combination with erlotinib. J Clin Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649441. 2005;23:5900-5909. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16043828. 
98. Li MM, Datto M, Duncavage EJ, et al. Standards and guidelines for the 
interpretation and reporting of sequence variants in cancer: A joint 106. Cappuzzo F, Ligorio C, Toschi L, et al. EGFR and HER2 gene copy 
consensus recommendation of the Association for Molecular Pathology, number and response to first-line chemotherapy in patients with advanced 
American Society of Clinical Oncology, and College of American non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). J Thorac Oncol 2007;2:423-429. 
Pathologists. J Mol Diagn 2017;19:4-23. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17473658. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27993330. 
107. Kwak EL, Bang YJ, Camidge DR, et al. Anaplastic lymphoma kinase 
99. Leichsenring J, Horak P, Kreutzfeldt S, et al. Variant classification in inhibition in non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
precision oncology. Int J Cancer 2019;145:2996-3010. Available at: 2010;363:1693-1703. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31008532. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20979469. 
100. Dy GK, Nesline MK, Papanicolau-Sengos A, et al. Treatment 108. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Noguchi M, et al. Diagnosis of lung 
recommendations to cancer patients in the context of FDA guidance for adenocarcinoma in resected specimens: implications of the 2011 
next generation sequencing. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak 2019;19:14. International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer/American Thoracic 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30658646. Society/European Respiratory Society classification. Arch Pathol Lab Med 
2013;137:685-705. Available at: 
101. Jordan EJ, Kim HR, Arcila ME, et al. Prospective comprehensive https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22913371. 
molecular characterization of lung adenocarcinomas for efficient patient 
matching to approved and emerging therapies. Cancer Discov 109. Cameron SE, Andrade RS, Pambuccian SE. Endobronchial 
2017;7:596-609. Available at: ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration cytology: a state of the 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28336552. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-95 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
art review. Cytopathology 2010;21:6-26. Available at: 118. Dugay F, Llamas-Gutierrez F, Gournay M, et al. Clinicopathological 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20015257. characteristics of ROS1- and RET-rearranged NSCLC in caucasian 
patients: Data from a cohort of 713 non-squamous NSCLC lacking 
110. Moreira AL, Thornton RH. Personalized medicine for non-small-cell KRAS/EGFR/HER2/BRAF/PIK3CA/ALK alterations. Oncotarget 
lung cancer: implications of recent advances in tissue acquisition for 2017;8:53336-53351. Available at: 
molecular and histologic testing. Clin Lung Cancer 2012;13:334-339. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28881815. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22424871. 
119. Ou SI, Horn L, Cruz M, et al. Emergence of FGFR3-TACC3 fusions 
111. Diacon AH, Schuurmans MM, Theron J, et al. Utility of rapid on-site as a potential by-pass resistance mechanism to EGFR tyrosine kinase 
evaluation of transbronchial needle aspirates. Respiration inhibitors in EGFR mutated NSCLC patients. Lung Cancer 
2005;72:182-188. Available at: 2017;111:61-64. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15824529. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28838400. 
112. Wahidi MM, Herth F, Yasufuku K, et al. Technical aspects of 120. Hyman DM, Laetsch TW, Kummar S, et al. The efficacy of 
endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration: CHEST larotrectinib (LOXO-101), a selective tropomyosin receptor kinase (TRK) 
Guideline and Expert Panel Report. Chest 2016;149:816-835. Available at: inhibitor, in adult and pediatric TRK fusion cancers [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26402427. 2017;35:Abstract LBA2501. Available at: 
https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/record/144598/abstract. 
113. Thompson GR, 3rd. Pulmonary coccidioidomycosis. Semin Respir 
Crit Care Med 2011;32:754-763. Available at: 121. Reck M, Rodriguez-Abreu D, Robinson AG, et al. Pembrolizumab 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22167403. versus chemotherapy for PD-L1-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N 
Engl J Med 2016;375:1823-1833. Available at: 
114. Iannuzzi MC, Fontana JR. Sarcoidosis: clinical presentation, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27718847. 
immunopathogenesis, and therapeutics. JAMA 2011;305:391-399. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21266686. 122. Yatabe Y, Dacic S, Borczuk AC, et al. Best practices 
recommendations for diagnostic immunohistochemistry in lung cancer. J 
115. Centers for Disease C, Prevention. CDC Grand Rounds: the TB/HIV Thorac Oncol 2019;14:377-407. Available at: 
syndemic. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep 2012;61:484-489. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30572031. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22763886. 
123. Travis WD, Rekhtman N. Pathological diagnosis and classification of 
116. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Muller-Hermelink HK, Harris CC. Pathology lung cancer in small biopsies and cytology: strategic management of 
and genetics of tumours of the lung, pleura, thymus and heart, World tissue for molecular testing. Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2011;32:22-31. 
Health Organization Classification of Tumours. Lyon, France: IARC Press; Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21500121. 
2004. 
124. Zakowski MF, Rekhtman N, Auger M, et al. Morphologic accuracy in 
117. Travis WD, Brambilla E, Riely GJ. New pathologic classification of differentiating primary lung adenocarcinoma from squamous cell 
lung cancer: relevance for clinical practice and clinical trials. J Clin Oncol carcinoma in cytology specimens. Arch Pathol Lab Med 
2013;31:992-1001. Available at: 2016;140:1116-1120. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23401443. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27552093. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-96 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
125. Rekhtman N, Ang DC, Sima CS, et al. Immunohistochemical 132. Rivera MP, Mehta AC, American College of Chest P. Initial diagnosis 
algorithm for differentiation of lung adenocarcinoma and squamous cell of lung cancer: ACCP evidence-based clinical practice guidelines (2nd 
carcinoma based on large series of whole-tissue sections with validation in edition). Chest 2007;132:131S-148S. Available at: 
small specimens. Mod Pathol 2011;24:1348-1359. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17873165. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623384. 
133. Tan D, Zander DS. Immunohistochemistry for assessment of 
126. Mukhopadhyay S, Katzenstein AL. Subclassification of non-small cell pulmonary and pleural neoplasms: a review and update. Int J Clin Exp 
lung carcinomas lacking morphologic differentiation on biopsy specimens: Pathol 2008;1:19-31. Available at: 
Utility of an immunohistochemical panel containing TTF-1, napsin A, p63, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18784820. 
and CK5/6. Am J Surg Pathol 2011;35:15-25. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21164283. 134. Zhang H, Liu J, Cagle PT, et al. Distinction of pulmonary small cell 
carcinoma from poorly differentiated squamous cell carcinoma: an 
127. Terry J, Leung S, Laskin J, et al. Optimal immunohistochemical immunohistochemical approach. Mod Pathol 2005;18:111-118. Available 
markers for distinguishing lung adenocarcinomas from squamous cell at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15309021. 
carcinomas in small tumor samples. Am J Surg Pathol 
2010;34:1805-1811. Available at: 135. Amin MB, Greene FL, Edge SB, et al. AJCC Staging Manual, 8th ed: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21107086. Springer International Publishing; 2017:1-1024. 
128. Ordonez NG. Thyroid transcription factor-1 is a marker of lung and 136. Detterbeck FC, Boffa DJ, Kim AW, Tanoue LT. The Eighth Edition 
thyroid carcinomas. Adv Anat Pathol 2000;7:123-127. Available at: Lung Cancer Stage Classification. Chest 2017;151:193-203. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10721419. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27780786. 
129. Husain AN, Colby T, Ordonez N, et al. Guidelines for pathologic 137. Goldstraw P, Chansky K, Crowley J, et al. The IASLC Lung Cancer 
diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma: 2012 update of the consensus Staging Project: Proposals for revision of the TNM stage groupings in the 
statement from the International Mesothelioma Interest Group. Arch Pathol forthcoming (eighth) edition of the TNM classification for lung cancer. J 
Lab Med 2013;137:647-667. Available at: Thorac Oncol 2016;11:39-51. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22929121. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26762738. 
130. Husain AN, Colby TV, Ordonez NG, et al. Guidelines for pathologic 138. Goldstraw P, Crowley J, Chansky K, et al. The IASLC Lung Cancer 
diagnosis of malignant mesothelioma: a consensus statement from the Staging Project: Proposals for the revision of the TNM stage groupings in 
International Mesothelioma Interest Group. Arch Pathol Lab Med the forthcoming (seventh) edition of the TNM Classification of malignant 
2009;133:1317-1331. Available at: tumours. J Thorac Oncol 2007;2:706-714. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19653732. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17762336. 
131. Ordonez NG. D2-40 and podoplanin are highly specific and sensitive 139. Detterbeck FC, Boffa DJ, Tanoue LT. The new lung cancer staging 
immunohistochemical markers of epithelioid malignant mesothelioma. system. Chest 2009;136:260-271. Available at: 
Hum Pathol 2005;36:372-380. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19584208. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15891998. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-97 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
140. Rami-Porta R, Bolejack V, Goldstraw P. The new tumor, node, and mutations. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:2442-2449. Available at: 
metastasis staging system. Semin Respir Crit Care Med 2011;32:44-51. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18458038. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21500123. 
149. Tsao MS, Sakurada A, Cutz JC, et al. Erlotinib in lung 
141. Rami-Porta R, Crowley JJ, Goldstraw P. The revised TNM staging cancer - molecular and clinical predictors of outcome. N Engl J Med 
system for lung cancer. Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2009;15:4-9. 2005;353:133-144. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19262443. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16014883. 
142. Rami-Porta R, Asamura H, Travis WD, Rusch VW. Lung 150. Mazieres J, Zalcman G, Crino L, et al. Crizotinib therapy for 
cancer - major changes in the American Joint Committee on Cancer advanced lung adenocarcinoma and a ROS1 rearrangement: results from 
eighth edition cancer staging manual. CA Cancer J Clin 2017;67:138-155. the EUROS1 cohort. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:992-999. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28140453. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25667280. 
143. Postmus PE, Kerr KM, Oudkerk M, et al. Early and locally advanced 151. Shaw AT, Ou SH, Bang YJ, et al. Crizotinib in ROS1-rearranged 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC): ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2014;371:1963-1971. Available 
for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2017;28:iv1-iv21. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25264305. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28881918. 
152. Drilon A, Wang L, Hasanovic A, et al. Response to cabozantinib in 
144. Edge SB, Byrd DR, Compton CC, et al. AJCC Cancer Staging patients with RET fusion-positive lung adenocarcinomas. Cancer Discov 
Manual, 7th ed. New York: Springer; 2010. 2013;3:630-635. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23533264. 
145. Ou SH, Zell JA, Ziogas A, Anton-Culver H. Prognostic factors for 
survival of stage I nonsmall cell lung cancer patients: a population-based 153. Bergethon K, Shaw AT, Ou SH, et al. ROS1 rearrangements define a 
analysis of 19,702 stage I patients in the California Cancer Registry from unique molecular class of lung cancers. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:863-870. 
1989 to 2003. Cancer 2007;110:1532-1541. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22215748. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17702091. 
154. Ou SH, Tan J, Yen Y, Soo RA. ROS1 as a 'druggable' receptor 
146. Raz DJ, Zell JA, Ou SH, et al. Natural history of stage I non-small cell tyrosine kinase: lessons learned from inhibiting the ALK pathway. Expert 
lung cancer: implications for early detection. Chest 2007;132:193-199. Rev Anticancer Ther 2012;12:447-456. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17505036. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22500682. 
147. Miller VA, Riely GJ, Zakowski MF, et al. Molecular characteristics of 155. Takeuchi K, Soda M, Togashi Y, et al. RET, ROS1 and ALK fusions 
bronchioloalveolar carcinoma and adenocarcinoma, bronchioloalveolar in lung cancer. Nat Med 2012;18:378-381. Available at: 
carcinoma subtype, predict response to erlotinib. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22327623. 
2008;26:1472-1478. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18349398. 156. Ou SH, Ahn JS, De Petris L, et al. Alectinib in crizotinib-refractory 
ALK-rearranged non-small-cell cung cancer: A phase II global study. J Clin 
148. Sequist LV, Martins RG, Spigel D, et al. First-line gefitinib in patients Oncol 2016;34:661-668. Available at: 
with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer harboring somatic EGFR https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26598747. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-98 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
157. Douillard JY, Ostoros G, Cobo M, et al. First-line gefitinib in 164. Shaw AT, Forcione DG, Digumarthy SR, Iafrate AJ. Case records of 
Caucasian EGFR mutation-positive NSCLC patients: a phase-IV, the Massachusetts General Hospital. Case 21-2011. A 31-year-old man 
open-label, single-arm study. Br J Cancer 2014;110:55-62. Available at: with ALK-positive adenocarcinoma of the lung. N Engl J Med 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24263064. 2011;365:158-167. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21751909. 
158. Besse B, Adjei A, Baas P, et al. 2nd ESMO Consensus Conference 
on Lung Cancer: non-small-cell lung cancer first-line/second and further 165. Shaw AT, Yeap BY, Mino-Kenudson M, et al. Clinical features and 
lines of treatment in advanced disease. Ann Oncol 2014;25:1475-1484. outcome of patients with non-small-cell lung cancer who harbor 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24669016. EML4-ALK. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:4247-4253. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19667264. 
159. Kerr KM, Bubendorf L, Edelman MJ, et al. Second ESMO consensus 
conference on lung cancer: pathology and molecular biomarkers for 166. Kim AS, Bartley AN, Bridge JA, et al. Comparison of 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Oncol 2014;25:1681-1690. Available at: laboratory-developed tests and FDA-approved assays for BRAF, EGFR, 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24718890. and KRAS testing. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:838-841. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29242895. 
160. Lindeman NI, Cagle PT, Beasley MB, et al. Molecular testing 
guideline for selection of lung cancer patients for EGFR and ALK tyrosine 167. Vansteenkiste JF, Van De Kerkhove C, Wauters E, Van Mol P. 
kinase inhibitors: guideline from the College of American Pathologists, Capmatinib for the treatment of non-small cell lung cancer. Expert Rev 
International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer, and Association for Anticancer Ther 2019;19:659-671. Available at: 
Molecular Pathology. J Thorac Oncol 2013;8:823-859. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31368815. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23552377. 
168. Planchard D, Besse B, Groen HJM, et al. Dabrafenib plus trametinib 
161. Paik PK, Varghese AM, Sima CS, et al. Response to erlotinib in in patients with previously treated BRAF(V600E)-mutant metastatic 
patients with EGFR mutant advanced non-small cell lung cancers with a non-small cell lung cancer: an open-label, multicentre phase 2 trial. Lancet 
squamous or squamous-like component. Mol Cancer Ther Oncol 2016;17:984-993. Available at: 
2012;11:2535-2540. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27283860. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22896669. 
169. Gautschi O, Milia J, Cabarrou B, et al. Targeted therapy for patients 
162. Wong DW, Leung EL, So KK, et al. The EML4-ALK fusion gene is with BRAF-mutant lung cancer: Results from the European EURAF cohort. 
involved in various histologic types of lung cancers from nonsmokers with J Thorac Oncol 2015;10:1451-1457. Available at: 
wild-type EGFR and KRAS. Cancer 2009;115:1723-1733. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26200454. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19170230. 
170. Sholl LM, Aisner DL, Varella-Garcia M, et al. Multi-institutional 
163. Forbes SA, Bhamra G, Bamford S, et al. The Catalogue of Somatic oncogenic driver mutation analysis in lung adenocarcinoma: The Lung 
Mutations in Cancer (COSMIC). Curr Protoc Hum Genet 2008;Chapter Cancer Mutation Consortium experience. J Thorac Oncol 
10:Unit 10 11. Available at: 2015;10:768-777. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18428421. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25738220. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-99 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
171. Ali G, Proietti A, Pelliccioni S, et al. ALK rearrangement in a large 178. Li BT, Shen R, Buonocore D, et al. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine for 
series of consecutive non-small cell lung cancers: comparison between a patients with HER2-mutant lung cancers: Results from a phase II basket 
new immunohistochemical approach and fluorescence in situ hybridization trial. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2532-2537. Available at: 
for the screening of patients eligible for crizotinib treatment. Arch Pathol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29989854. 
Lab Med 2014;138:1449-1458. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24885803. 179. Hellmann MD, Ciuleanu TE, Pluzanski A, et al. Nivolumab plus 
ipilimumab in lung cancer with a high tumor mutational burden. N Engl J 
172. Slebos RJ, Kibbelaar RE, Dalesio O, et al. K-ras oncogene activation Med 2018;378:2093-2104. Available at: 
as a prognostic marker in adenocarcinoma of the lung. N Engl J Med https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29658845. 
1990;323:561-565. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2199829. 180. Carbone DP, Reck M, Paz-Ares L, et al. First-line nivolumab in stage 
IV or recurrent non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
173. Roberts PJ, Stinchcombe TE. KRAS mutation: should we test for it, 2017;376:2415-2426. Available at: 
and does it matter? J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1112-1121. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28636851. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23401440. 
181. Cardarella S, Ortiz TM, Joshi VA, et al. The introduction of systematic 
174. Tsao MS, Aviel-Ronen S, Ding K, et al. Prognostic and predictive genomic testing for patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. J Thorac 
importance of p53 and RAS for adjuvant chemotherapy in non small-cell Oncol 2012;7:1767-1774. Available at: 
lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:5240-5247. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23154547. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18024870. 
182. Sequist LV, Heist RS, Shaw AT, et al. Implementing multiplexed 
175. Camidge DR, Ou S-HI, Shapiro G, et al. Efficacy and safety of genotyping of non-small-cell lung cancers into routine clinical practice. Ann 
crizotinib in patients with advanced c-MET-amplified non-small cell lung Oncol 2011;22:2616-2624. Available at: 
cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2014;32(Suppl 5):Abstract 8001. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22071650. 
Available at:  
183. Lindeman NI, Cagle PT, Aisner DL, et al. Updated molecular testing 
176. Paik PK, Veillon R, Cortot AB, et al. Phase II study of tepotinib in guideline for the selection of lung cancer patients for treatment with 
NSCLC patients with METex14 mutations [abstract]. J Clin Oncol targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitors: Guideline from the College of American 
2019;37:Abstract 9005. Available at: Pathologists, the International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer, 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.9005. and the Association for Molecular Pathology. Arch Pathol Lab Med 
2018;142:321-346. Available at: 
177. Ou SH, Kwak EL, Siwak-Tapp C, et al. Activity of crizotinib https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29355391. 
(PF02341066), a dual mesenchymal-epithelial transition (MET) and 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) inhibitor, in a non-small cell lung 184. Mitchell RL, Kosche C, Burgess K, et al. Misdiagnosis of Li-Fraumeni 
cancer patient with de novo MET amplification. J Thorac Oncol syndrome in a patient with clonal hematopoiesis and a somatic TP53 
2011;6:942-946. Available at: mutation. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2018;16:461-466. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21623265. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29752319. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-100 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
185. Jaiswal S, Fontanillas P, Flannick J, et al. Age-related clonal 192. Jennings LJ, Arcila ME, Corless C, et al. Guidelines for validation of 
hematopoiesis associated with adverse outcomes. N Engl J Med next-generation sequencing-based oncology panels: A joint consensus 
2014;371:2488-2498. Available at: recommendation of the Association for Molecular Pathology and College 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25426837. of American Pathologists. J Mol Diagn 2017;19:341-365. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28341590. 
186. Coombs CC, Zehir A, Devlin SM, et al. Therapy-related clonal 
hematopoiesis in patients with non-hematologic cancers is common and 193. Aziz N, Zhao Q, Bry L, et al. College of American Pathologists' 
associated with adverse clinical outcomes. Cell Stem Cell laboratory standards for next-generation sequencing clinical tests. Arch 
2017;21:374-382 e374. Available at: Pathol Lab Med 2015;139:481-493. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28803919. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25152313. 
187. Rolfo C, Mack PC, Scagliotti GV, et al. Liquid biopsy for advanced 194. Luthra R, Chen H, Roy-Chowdhuri S, Singh RR. Next-generation 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): A statement paper from the IASLC. J sequencing in clinical molecular diagnostics of cancer: Advantages and 
Thorac Oncol 2018;13:1248-1268. Available at: challenges. Cancers (Basel) 2015;7:2023-2036. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29885479. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26473927. 
188. Palmero R, Taus A, Viteri S, et al. P2.03-02 cell-free DNA (cfDNA) 195. Drilon A, Wang L, Arcila ME, et al. Broad, hybrid capture-based 
testing in lung adenocarcinoma (LUAC) patients: Spanish Lung Liquid next-generation sequencing identifies actionable genomic alterations in 
Versus Invasive Biopsy Program (SLLIP) [abstract]. J Thorac Oncol lung adenocarcinomas otherwise negative for such alterations by other 
2018;13:Abstract S716–717. Available at: genomic testing approaches. Clin Cancer Res 2015;21:3631-3639. 
https://www.jto.org/article/S1556-0864(18)32147-6/pdf. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25567908. 
189. Leighl NB, Page RD, Raymond VM, et al. Clinical utility of 196. Robson ME, Bradbury AR, Arun B, et al. American Society of Clinical 
comprehensive cell-free DNA analysis to identify genomic biomarkers in Oncology Policy Statement Update: Genetic and Genomic Testing for 
patients with newly diagnosed metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Susceptibility. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:3660-3667. Available at: 
Cancer Res 2019;25:4691-4700. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26324357. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30988079. 
197. Yu PP, Vose JM, Hayes DF. Genetic cancer susceptibility testing: 
190. McCoach CE, Blakely CM, Banks KC, et al. Clinical Utility of Increased technology, increased complexity. J Clin Oncol 
Cell-Free DNA for the Detection of ALK Fusions and Genomic 2015;33:3533-3534. Available at: 
Mechanisms of ALK Inhibitor Resistance in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26324366. 
Clin Cancer Res 2018;24:2758-2770. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29599410. 198. Li T, Kung HJ, Mack PC, Gandara DR. Genotyping and genomic 
profiling of non-small-cell lung cancer: implications for current and future 
191. Aggarwal C, Thompson JC, Black TA, et al. Clinical implications of therapies. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1039-1049. Available at: 
plasma-based genotyping with the delivery of personalized therapy in https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23401433. 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. JAMA Oncol 2019;5:173-180. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30325992. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-101 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
199. Planchard D. Identification of driver mutations in lung cancer: first 207. Rosell R, Carcereny E, Gervais R, et al. Erlotinib versus standard 
step in personalized cancer. Target Oncol 2013;8:3-14. Available at: chemotherapy as first-line treatment for European patients with advanced 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23371030. EGFR mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (EURTAC): a 
multicentre, open-label, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 
200. Langer CJ. Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibition in 2012;13:239-246. Available at: 
mutation-positive non-small-cell lung cancer: is afatinib better or simply https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22285168. 
newer? J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3303-3306. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23980079. 208. Mitsudomi T, Morita S, Yatabe Y, et al. Gefitinib versus cisplatin plus 
docetaxel in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer harbouring mutations 
201. Riely GJ, Politi KA, Miller VA, Pao W. Update on epidermal growth of the epidermal growth factor receptor (WJTOG3405): an open label, 
factor receptor mutations in non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2010;11:121-128. Available at: 
2006;12:7232-7241. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20022809. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17189394. 
209. Maemondo M, Inoue A, Kobayashi K, et al. Gefitinib or chemotherapy 
202. O'Kane GM, Bradbury PA, Feld R, et al. Uncommon EGFR mutations for non-small-cell lung cancer with mutated EGFR. N Engl J Med 
in advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Lung Cancer 2017;109:137-144. 2010;362:2380-2388. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28577943. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20573926. 
203. Hirsch FR, Bunn PA, Jr. EGFR testing in lung cancer is ready for 210. Zhou C, Wu YL, Chen G, et al. Erlotinib versus chemotherapy as 
prime time. Lancet Oncol 2009;10:432-433. Available at: first-line treatment for patients with advanced EGFR mutation-positive 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19410185. non-small-cell lung cancer (OPTIMAL, CTONG-0802): a multicentre, 
open-label, randomised, phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2011;12:735-742. 
204. Felip E, Gridelli C, Baas P, et al. Metastatic non-small-cell lung Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21783417. 
cancer: consensus on pathology and molecular tests, first-line, 
second-line, and third-line therapy: 1st ESMO Consensus Conference in 211. Zhou C, Wu YL, Chen G, et al. Updated efficacy and quality-of-life 
Lung Cancer; Lugano 2010. Ann Oncol 2011;22:1507-1519. Available at: (QoL) analyses in OPTIMAL, a phase III, randomized, open-label study of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21536661. first-line erlotinib versus gemcitabine/carboplatin in patients with 
EGFR-activating mutation-positive (EGFR Act Mut+) advanced non-small 
205. Keedy VL, Temin S, Somerfield MR, et al. American Society of cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(Suppl 
Clinical Oncology provisional clinical opinion: epidermal growth factor 15):Abstract 7520. Available at: 
receptor (EGFR) Mutation testing for patients with advanced https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/7520. 
non-small-cell lung cancer considering first-line EGFR tyrosine kinase 
inhibitor therapy. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2121-2127. Available at: 212. Mok TS, Wu YL, Thongprasert S, et al. Gefitinib or 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21482992. carboplatin-paclitaxel in pulmonary adenocarcinoma. N Engl J Med 
2009;361:947-957. Available at: 
206. Sequist LV, Yang JC, Yamamoto N, et al. Phase III study of afatinib https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19692680. 
or cisplatin plus pemetrexed in patients with metastatic lung 
adenocarcinoma with EGFR mutations. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3327-3334. 213. Yasuda H, Park E, Yun CH, et al. Structural, biochemical, and clinical 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23816960. characterization of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) exon 20 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-102 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
insertion mutations in lung cancer. Sci Transl Med 2013;5:216ra177. 221. Gainor JF, Shaw AT. Emerging paradigms in the development of 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24353160. resistance to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 
2013;31:3987-3996. Available at: 
214. Arcila ME, Nafa K, Chaft JE, et al. EGFR exon 20 insertion mutations https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24101047. 
in lung adenocarcinomas: prevalence, molecular heterogeneity, and 
clinicopathologic characteristics. Mol Cancer Ther 2013;12:220-229. 222. Pao W, Miller VA, Politi KA, et al. Acquired resistance of lung 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23371856. adenocarcinomas to gefitinib or erlotinib is associated with a second 
mutation in the EGFR kinase domain. PLoS Med 2005;2:e73. Available at: 
215. Oxnard GR, Lo PC, Nishino M, et al. Natural history and molecular https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15737014. 
characteristics of lung cancers harboring EGFR exon 20 insertions. J 
Thorac Oncol 2013;8:179-184. Available at: 223. Kosaka T, Yatabe Y, Endoh H, et al. Analysis of epidermal growth 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23328547. factor receptor gene mutation in patients with non-small cell lung cancer 
and acquired resistance to gefitinib. Clin Cancer Res 2006;12:5764-5769. 
216. Lund-Iversen M, Kleinberg L, Fjellbirkeland L, et al. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17020982. 
Clinicopathological characteristics of 11 NSCLC patients with EGFR-exon 
20 mutations. J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:1471-1473. Available at: 224. Onitsuka T, Uramoto H, Nose N, et al. Acquired resistance to 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22895145. gefitinib: the contribution of mechanisms other than the T790M, MET, and 
HGF status. Lung Cancer 2010;68:198-203. Available at: 
217. Yasuda H, Kobayashi S, Costa DB. EGFR exon 20 insertion https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19589612. 
mutations in non-small-cell lung cancer: preclinical data and clinical 
implications. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:e23-31. Available at: 225. Nishino M, Cardarella S, Jackman DM, et al. RECIST 1.1 in NSCLC 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21764376. patients with EGFR mutations treated with EGFR tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors: comparison with RECIST 1.0. AJR Am J Roentgenol 
218. Riely GJ, Yu HA. EGFR: The paradigm of an oncogene-driven lung 2013;201:W64-71. Available at: 
cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2015;21:2221-2226. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23789698. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25979928. 
226. Mok TS, Wu YL, Ahn MJ, et al. Osimertinib or platinum-pemetrexed 
219. Yu HA, Arcila ME, Rekhtman N, et al. Analysis of tumor specimens at in EGFR T790M-positive lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2017;376:629-640. 
the time of acquired resistance to EGFR-TKI therapy in 155 patients with Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27959700. 
EGFR-mutant lung cancers. Clin Cancer Res 2013;19:2240-2247. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23470965. 227. Rosell R, Molina MA, Costa C, et al. Pretreatment EGFR T790M 
mutation and BRCA1 mRNA expression in erlotinib-treated advanced 
220. Finlay MR, Anderton M, Ashton S, et al. Discovery of a potent and non-small-cell lung cancer patients with EGFR mutations. Clin Cancer Res 
selective EGFR inhibitor (AZD9291) of both sensitizing and T790M 2011;17:1160-1168. Available at: 
resistance mutations that spares the wild type form of the receptor. J Med https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21233402. 
Chem 2014;57:8249-8267. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25271963. 228. Oxnard GR, Miller VA, Robson ME, et al. Screening for germline 
EGFR T790M mutations through lung cancer genotyping. J Thorac Oncol 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-103 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2012;7:1049-1052. Available at: carcinoma of the lung; Version: LungBiomarkers 1.3.0.0: College of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22588155. American Pathologists; 2016. Available at: https://www.cap.org. 
229. Gazdar A, Robinson L, Oliver D, et al. Hereditary lung cancer 236. Han SW, Kim TY, Jeon YK, et al. Optimization of patient selection for 
syndrome targets never smokers with germline EGFR gene T790M gefitinib in non-small cell lung cancer by combined analysis of epidermal 
mutations. J Thorac Oncol 2014;9:456-463. Available at: growth factor receptor mutation, K-ras mutation, and Akt phosphorylation. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24736066. Clin Cancer Res 2006;12:2538-2544. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16638863. 
230. Marcoux N, Gettinger SN, O'Kane G, et al. EGFR-mutant 
adenocarcinomas that transform to small-cell lung cancer and other 237. Dacic S. EGFR assays in lung cancer. Adv Anat Pathol 
neuroendocrine carcinomas: Clinical outcomes. J Clin Oncol 2008;15:241-247. Available at: 
2019;37:278-285. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18580100. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30550363. 
238. Sholl LM, Xiao Y, Joshi V, et al. EGFR mutation is a better predictor 
231. Sequist LV, Waltman BA, Dias-Santagata D, et al. Genotypic and of response to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in non-small cell lung carcinoma 
histological evolution of lung cancers acquiring resistance to EGFR than FISH, CISH, and immunohistochemistry. Am J Clin Pathol 
inhibitors. Sci Transl Med 2011;3:75ra26. Available at: 2010;133:922-934. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21430269. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20472851. 
232. Oxnard GR. Strategies for overcoming acquired resistance to 239. Eberhard DA, Giaccone G, Johnson BE, Non-Small-Cell Lung 
epidermal growth factor receptor: targeted therapies in lung cancer. Arch Cancer Working G. Biomarkers of response to epidermal growth factor 
Pathol Lab Med 2012;136:1205-1209. Available at: receptor inhibitors in Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Working Group: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23020725. standardization for use in the clinical trial setting. J Clin Oncol 
2008;26:983-994. Available at: 
233. Suda K, Mizuuchi H, Maehara Y, Mitsudomi T. Acquired resistance https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18281673. 
mechanisms to tyrosine kinase inhibitors in lung cancer with activating 
epidermal growth factor receptor mutation--diversity, ductility, and destiny. 240. Pao W, Ladanyi M. Epidermal growth factor receptor mutation testing 
Cancer Metastasis Rev 2012;31:807-814. Available at: in lung cancer: searching for the ideal method. Clin Cancer Res 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22736441. 2007;13:4954-4955. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17785543. 
234. Yu HA, Suzawa K, Jordan E, et al. Concurrent alterations in 
EGFR-mutant lung cancers associated with resistance to EGFR kinase 241. Shepherd FA, Tsao MS. Epidermal growth factor receptor biomarkers 
inhibitors and characterization of MTOR as a mediator of resistance. Clin in non-small-cell lung cancer: a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an 
Cancer Res 2018;24:3108-3118. Available at: enigma. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:903-905. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29530932. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20100955. 
235. Sholl LM, Cagle PT, Lindeman NI, et al. Template for reporting 242. Dias-Santagata D, Akhavanfard S, David SS, et al. Rapid targeted 
results of biomarker testing of specimens from patients with non-small cell mutational analysis of human tumours: a clinical platform to guide 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-104 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
personalized cancer medicine. EMBO Mol Med 2010;2:146-158. Available 250. Borczuk AC. Keeping up with testing guidelines in lung cancer. Arch 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20432502. Pathol Lab Med 2018;142:783-784. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29939779. 
243. Janne PA, Yang JC, Kim DW, et al. AZD9291 in EGFR 
inhibitor-resistant non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 251. Peters S, Camidge DR, Shaw AT, et al. Alectinib versus crizotinib in 
2015;372:1689-1699. Available at: untreated ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25923549. 2017;377:829-838. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28586279. 
244. Gainor JF, Varghese AM, Ou SH, et al. ALK rearrangements are 
mutually exclusive with mutations in EGFR or KRAS: an analysis of 1,683 252. Solomon BJ, Mok T, Kim DW, et al. First-line crizotinib versus 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res chemotherapy in ALK-positive lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
2013;19:4273-4281. Available at: 2014;371:2167-2177. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23729361. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25470694. 
245. Takahashi T, Sonobe M, Kobayashi M, et al. Clinicopathologic 253. Soria JC, Tan DSW, Chiari R, et al. First-line ceritinib versus 
features of non-small-cell lung cancer with EML4-ALK fusion gene. Ann platinum-based chemotherapy in advanced ALK-rearranged non-small-cell 
Surg Oncol 2010;17:889-897. Available at: lung cancer (ASCEND-4): a randomised, open-label, phase 3 study. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20183914. Lancet 2017;389:917-929. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28126333. 
246. Davies H, Bignell GR, Cox C, et al. Mutations of the BRAF gene in 
human cancer. Nature 2002;417:949-954. Available at: 254. Camidge DR, Kim HR, Ahn MJ, et al. Brigatinib versus crizotinib in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12068308. ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
2018;379:2027-2039. Available at: 
247. Paik PK, Arcila ME, Fara M, et al. Clinical characteristics of patients https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30280657. 
with lung adenocarcinomas harboring BRAF mutations. J Clin Oncol 
2011;29:2046-2051. Available at: 255. Rogers TM, Russell PA, Wright G, et al. Comparison of methods in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21483012. the detection of ALK and ROS1 rearrangements in lung cancer. J Thorac 
Oncol 2015;10:611-618. Available at: 
248. Mazieres J, Cropet C, Montane L, et al. Vemurafenib in https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25789833. 
non-small-cell lung cancer patients with BRAF(V600) and BRAF(nonV600) 
mutations. Ann Oncol 2020;31:289-294. Available at: 256. von Laffert M, Warth A, Penzel R, et al. Multicenter 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31959346. immunohistochemical ALK-testing of non-small-cell lung cancer shows 
high concordance after harmonization of techniques and interpretation 
249. Mazieres J, Drilon A, Lusque A, et al. Immune checkpoint inhibitors criteria. J Thorac Oncol 2014;9:1685-1692. Available at: 
for patients with advanced lung cancer and oncogenic driver alterations: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25436802. 
results from the IMMUNOTARGET registry. Ann Oncol 
2019;30:1321-1328. Available at: 257. Wynes MW, Sholl LM, Dietel M, et al. An international interpretation 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31125062. study using the ALK IHC antibody D5F3 and a sensitive detection kit 
demonstrates high concordance between ALK IHC and ALK FISH and 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-105 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
between evaluators. J Thorac Oncol 2014;9:631-638. Available at: and fluorescence in situ hybridization methodologies for detection of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24722153. echinoderm microtubule-associated proteinlike 4-anaplastic lymphoma 
kinase fusion-positive non-small cell lung carcinoma: implications for 
258. Zhou J, Zhao J, Sun K, et al. Accurate and economical detection of optimal clinical testing. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2012;136:796-803. Available 
ALK positive lung adenocarcinoma with semiquantitative at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22742552. 
immunohistochemical screening. PLoS One 2014;9:e92828. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24667320. 265. Weickhardt AJ, Aisner DL, Franklin WA, et al. Diagnostic assays for 
identification of anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive non-small cell lung 
259. Thunnissen E, Bubendorf L, Dietel M, et al. EML4-ALK testing in cancer. Cancer 2013;119:1467-1477. Available at: 
non-small cell carcinomas of the lung: a review with recommendations. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23280244. 
Virchows Arch 2012;461:245-257. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22825000. 266. Robinson DR, Wu YM, Lin SF. The protein tyrosine kinase family of 
the human genome. Oncogene 2000;19:5548-5557. Available at: 
260. Kim H, Yoo SB, Choe JY, et al. Detection of ALK gene https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11114734. 
rearrangement in non-small cell lung cancer: a comparison of 
fluorescence in situ hybridization and chromogenic in situ hybridization 267. Kim HR, Lim SM, Kim HJ, et al. The frequency and impact of ROS1 
with correlation of ALK protein expression. J Thorac Oncol rearrangement on clinical outcomes in never smokers with lung 
2011;6:1359-1366. Available at: adenocarcinoma. Ann Oncol 2013;24:2364-2370. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21587085. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23788756. 
261. Rodig SJ, Mino-Kenudson M, Dacic S, et al. Unique clinicopathologic 268. Drilon A, Barlesi F, De Braud F, et al. Entrectinib in locally advanced 
features characterize ALK-rearranged lung adenocarcinoma in the or metastatic ROS1 fusion positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
western population. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:5216-5223. Available at: Integrated analysis of STARTRK-2, STARTRK-1, and ALKA-372-001 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19671850. [abstract]. Cancer Research 2019;79:Abstract CT192. Available at: 
https://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/79/13_Supplement/CT192. 
262. Mino-Kenudson M, Chirieac LR, Law K, et al. A novel, highly 
sensitive antibody allows for the routine detection of ALK-rearranged lung 269. Kazandjian D, Blumenthal GM, Luo L, et al. Benefit-risk summary of 
adenocarcinomas by standard immunohistochemistry. Clin Cancer Res crizotinib for the treatment of patients with ROS1 alteration-positive, 
2010;16:1561-1571. Available at: metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Oncologist 2016;21:974-980. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20179225. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27328934. 
263. Ali SM, Hensing T, Schrock AB, et al. Comprehensive genomic 270. Clave S, Gimeno J, Munoz-Marmol AM, et al. ROS1 copy number 
profiling identifies a subset of crizotinib-responsive ALK-rearranged alterations are frequent in non-small cell lung cancer. Oncotarget 
non-small cell lung cancer not detected by fluorescence in situ 2016;7:8019-8028. Available at: 
hybridization. Oncologist 2016;21:762-770. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26783962. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27245569. 
271. Bubendorf L, Buttner R, Al-Dayel F, et al. Testing for ROS1 in 
264. Wallander ML, Geiersbach KB, Tripp SR, Layfield LJ. Comparison of non-small cell lung cancer: a review with recommendations. Virchows 
reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, immunohistochemistry, 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-106 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Arch 2016;469:489-503. Available at: with advanced ALK+ or ROS1+ non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27535289. [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:Abstract 9009. Available at: 
https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/161846-176. 
272. Davies KD, Le AT, Theodoro MF, et al. Identifying and targeting 
ROS1 gene fusions in non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res 279. Farago AF, Le LP, Zheng Z, et al. Durable clinical response to 
2012;18:4570-4579. Available at: entrectinib in NTRK1-rearranged non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22919003. Oncol 2015;10:1670-1674. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26565381. 
273. Michels S, Massuti B, Schildhaus HU, et al. Safety and efficacy of 
crizotinib in patients with advanced or metastatic ROS1-rearranged lung 280. Zou HY, Li Q, Engstrom LD, et al. PF-06463922 is a potent and 
cancer (EUCROSS): A European phase II clinical trial. J Thorac Oncol selective next-generation ROS1/ALK inhibitor capable of blocking 
2019;14:1266-1276. Available at: crizotinib-resistant ROS1 mutations. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30978502. 2015;112:3493-3498. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25733882. 
274. Wu YL, Yang JC, Kim DW, et al. Phase II study of crizotinib in East 
Asian patients with ROS1-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J 281. Katayama R, Kobayashi Y, Friboulet L, et al. Cabozantinib 
Clin Oncol 2018;36:1405-1411. Available at: overcomes crizotinib resistance in ROS1 fusion-positive cancer. Clin 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29596029. Cancer Res 2015;21:166-174. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25351743. 
275. Doebele RC, Paz-Ares L, Farago AF, et al. Entrectinib in NTRK 
fusion-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): integrated analysis of 282. Gatalica Z, Xiu J, Swensen J, Vranic S. Molecular characterization of 
patients enrolled in three trials (STARTRK-2, STARTRK-1 and cancers with NTRK gene fusions. Mod Pathol 2019;32:147-153. Available 
ALKA-372-001) [abstract]. AACR Annual Meeting. Atlanta, GA:Abstract at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30171197. 
CT131. Available at: 
https://cancerres.aacrjournals.org/content/79/13_Supplement/CT131. 283. Farago AF, Taylor MS, Doebele RC, et al. Clinicopathologic features 
of non-small-cell lung cancer harboring an NTRK gene fusion. JCO Precis 
276. Drilon A, Siena S, Ou SI, et al. Safety and antitumor activity of the Oncol 2018;2018. Available at: 
multitargeted Pan-TRK, ROS1, and ALK inhibitor entrectinib: Combined https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30215037. 
results from two phase I trials (ALKA-372-001 and STARTRK-1). Cancer 
Discov 2017;7:400-409. Available at: 284. Drilon A, Laetsch TW, Kummar S, et al. Efficacy of larotrectinib in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28183697. TRK fusion-positive cancers in adults and children. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:731-739. Available at: 
277. Shaw AT, Solomon BJ, Besse B, et al. ALK resistance mutations and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29466156. 
efficacy of lorlatinib in advanced anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive 
non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:1370-1379. Available at: 285. Benayed R, Offin M, Mullaney K, et al. High yield of RNA sequencing 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30892989. for targetable kinase fusions in lung adenocarcinomas with no mitogenic 
driver alteration detected by DNA sequencing and low tumor mutation 
278. Solomon BJ, Bauer TM, Felip E, et al. Safety and efficacy of lorlatinib burden. Clin Cancer Res 2019;25:4712-4722. Available at: 
(PF-06463922) from the dose-escalation component of a study in patients https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31028088. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-107 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
286. Doebele RC, Drilon A, Paz-Ares L, et al. Entrectinib in patients with 293. Sabari JK, Leonardi GC, Shu CA, et al. PD-L1 expression, tumor 
advanced or metastatic NTRK fusion-positive solid tumours: integrated mutational burden, and response to immunotherapy in patients with MET 
analysis of three phase 1-2 trials. Lancet Oncol 2020;21:271-282. exon 14 altered lung cancers. Ann Oncol 2018;29:2085-2091. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31838007. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30165371. 
287. Lassen U, Albert CM, Kummar S, et al. Larotrectinib efficacy and 294. Wolf J, Setons T, Han J-Y, et al. Capmatinib (INC280) in 
safety in TRK fusion cancer: an expanded clinical dataset showing METΔex14-mutated advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
consistency in an age and tumor agnostic approach [abstract] [abstract]. Efficacy data from the phase II GEOMETRY mono-1 study [abstract]. J 
Presented at the ESMO Congress; October 19-23; Munich, Germany. Clin Oncol 2019;37:Abstract 9004. Available at: 
Abstract 409O. https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2019.37.15_suppl.9004. 
288. Demetri GD, Paz-Ares L, Farago AF, et al. Efficacy and safety of 295. Drilon A, Clark JW, Weiss J, et al. Antitumor activity of crizotinib in 
entrectinib in patients with NTRK fusion-positive tumors: pooled analysis lung cancers harboring a MET exon 14 alteration. Nat Med 2020;26:47-51. 
of STARTRK-2, STARTRK-1 and ALKA-372-001 [abstract]. Ann Oncol Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31932802. 
2018;29:LBA17. Available at: https://tinyurl.com/y6mqmhx8. 
296. Gautschi O, Milia J, Filleron T, et al. Targeting RET in patients with 
289. Awad MM, Oxnard GR, Jackman DM, et al. MET exon 14 mutations RET-rearranged lung cancers: Results from the global, multicenter RET 
in non-small-cell lung cancer are associated with advanced age and registry. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1403-1410. Available at: 
stage-dependent MET genomic amplification and c-met overexpression. J https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28447912. 
Clin Oncol 2016;34:721-730. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26729443. 297. Ferrara R, Auger N, Auclin E, Besse B. Clinical and translational 
implications of RET rearrangements in non-small cell lung cancer. J 
290. Frampton GM, Ali SM, Rosenzweig M, et al. Activation of MET via Thorac Oncol 2018;13:27-45. Available at: 
diverse exon 14 splicing alterations occurs in multiple tumor types and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29128428. 
confers clinical sensitivity to MET inhibitors. Cancer Discov 
2015;5:850-859. Available at: 298. Michels S, Scheel AH, Scheffler M, et al. Clinicopathological 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25971938. characteristics of RET rearranged lung cancer in European patients. J 
Thorac Oncol 2016;11:122-127. Available at: 
291. Paik PK, Drilon A, Fan PD, et al. Response to MET inhibitors in https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26762747. 
patients with stage IV lung adenocarcinomas harboring MET mutations 
causing exon 14 skipping. Cancer Discov 2015;5:842-849. Available at: 299. Tsuta K, Kohno T, Yoshida A, et al. RET-rearranged non-small-cell 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25971939. lung carcinoma: a clinicopathological and molecular analysis. Br J Cancer 
2014;110:1571-1578. Available at: 
292. Vuong HG, Ho ATN, Altibi AMA, et al. Clinicopathological implications https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24504365. 
of MET exon 14 mutations in non-small cell lung cancer - A systematic 
review and meta-analysis. Lung Cancer 2018;123:76-82. Available at: 300. Lee SE, Lee B, Hong M, et al. Comprehensive analysis of RET and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30089599. ROS1 rearrangement in lung adenocarcinoma. Mod Pathol 
2015;28:468-479. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25234288. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-108 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
301. Kim JO, Lee J, Shin JY, et al. KIF5B-RET Fusion gene may coincide adenocarcinoma. Cancer Discov 2018;8:822-835. Available at: 
oncogenic mutations of EGFR or KRAS gene in lung adenocarcinomas. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29773717. 
Diagn Pathol 2015;10:143. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26268359. 309. Borghaei H, Paz-Ares L, Horn L, et al. Nivolumab versus docetaxel in 
advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
302. Gainor JF, Curigliano G, Kim D-W, et al. Registrational dataset from 2015;373:1627-1639. Available at: 
the phase I/II ARROW trial of pralsetinib (BLU-667) in patients (pts) with https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26412456. 
advanced RET fusion+ non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J 
Clin Oncol 2020;38:Abstract 9515. Available at: 310. Ribas A. Releasing the brakes on cancer immunotherapy. N Engl J 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2020.38.15_suppl.9515. Med 2015;373:1490-1492. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26348216. 
303. Drilon A, Oxnard G, Wirth L, et al. PL02.08 registrational results of 
LIBRETTO-001: A phase 1/2 trial of LOXO-292 in patients with RET 311. Brahmer JR, Hammers H, Lipson EJ. Nivolumab: targeting PD-1 to 
fusion-positive lung cancers [abstract]. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:Abstract bolster antitumor immunity. Future Oncol 2015;11:1307-1326. Available at: 
S6-S7. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jtho.2019.08.059. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25798726. 
304. Drilon A, Rekhtman N, Arcila M, et al. Cabozantinib in patients with 312. Brahmer J, Reckamp KL, Baas P, et al. Nivolumab versus docetaxel 
advanced RET-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer: an open-label, in advanced squamous-cell non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
single-centre, phase 2, single-arm trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1653-1660. 2015;373:123-135. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27825636. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26028407. 
305. Slebos RJ, Hruban RH, Dalesio O, et al. Relationship between K-ras 313. Antonia SJ, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Durvalumab after 
oncogene activation and smoking in adenocarcinoma of the human lung. J chemoradiotherapy in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
Natl Cancer Inst 1991;83:1024-1027. Available at: 2017;377:1919-1929. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2072410. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28885881. 
306. Mitsudomi T, Steinberg SM, Oie HK, et al. Ras gene mutations in 314. Fehrenbacher L, Spira A, Ballinger M, et al. Atezolizumab versus 
non-small cell lung cancers are associated with shortened survival docetaxel for patients with previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer 
irrespective of treatment intent. Cancer Res 1991;51:4999-5002. Available (POPLAR): a multicentre, open-label, phase 2 randomised controlled trial. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1654209. Lancet 2016;387:1837-1846. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26970723. 
307. Febbo PG, Ladanyi M, Aldape KD, et al. NCCN Task Force report: 
Evaluating the clinical utility of tumor markers in oncology. J Natl Compr 315. Gadgeel SM, Stevenson J, Langer C, et al. Pembrolizumab (pembro) 
Canc Netw 2011;9 Suppl 5:S1-32; quiz S33. Available at: plus chemotherapy as front-line therapy for advanced NSCLC: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22138009. KEYNOTE-021 cohorts A-C [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:Abstract 
9016. Available at: https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/167088-176. 
308. Skoulidis F, Goldberg ME, Greenawalt DM, et al. STK11/LKB1 
mutations and PD-1 inhibitor resistance in KRAS-mutant lung 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-109 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
316. Kerr KM, Nicolson MC. Non-small cell lung cancer, PD-L1, and the the global phase III ALEX study. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:1233-1243. 
pathologist. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2016;140:249-254. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30902613. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26927720. 
324. Gainor JF, Dardaei L, Yoda S, et al. Molecular mechanisms of 
317. Kerr KM, Hirsch FR. Programmed death ligand-1 resistance to first- and second-generation ALK inhibitors in 
immunohistochemistry: Friend or foe? Arch Pathol Lab Med ALK-rearranged lung cancer. Cancer Discov 2016;6:1118-1133. Available 
2016;140:326-331. Available at: at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27432227. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26756647. 
325. Chow WB, Rosenthal RA, Merkow RP, et al. Optimal preoperative 
318. Rimm DL, Han G, Taube JM, et al. A prospective, multi-institutional, assessment of the geriatric surgical patient: a best practices guideline 
pathologist-based assessment of 4 immunohistochemistry assays for from the American College of Surgeons National Surgical Quality 
PD-L1 expression in non-small cell lung cancer. JAMA Oncol Improvement Program and the American Geriatrics Society. J Am Coll 
2017;3:1051-1058. Available at: Surg 2012;215:453-466. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28278348. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22917646. 
319. Buttner R, Gosney JR, Skov BG, et al. Programmed death-ligand 1 326. Howington JA, Blum MG, Chang AC, et al. Treatment of stage I and II 
immunohistochemistry testing: A review of analytical assays and clinical non-small cell lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 
implementation in non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical 
2017;35:3867-3876. Available at: practice guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e278S-e313S. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29053400. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649443. 
320. Kerr KM, Tsao MS, Nicholson AG, et al. Programmed death-ligand 1 327. Handforth C, Clegg A, Young C, et al. The prevalence and outcomes 
immunohistochemistry in lung cancer: In what state is this art? J Thorac of frailty in older cancer patients: a systematic review. Ann Oncol 
Oncol 2015;10:985-989. Available at: 2015;26:1091-1101. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26134220. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25403592. 
321. Soria JC, Ohe Y, Vansteenkiste J, et al. Osimertinib in untreated 328. Caillet P, Laurent M, Bastuji-Garin S, et al. Optimal management of 
EGFR-mutated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med elderly cancer patients: usefulness of the Comprehensive Geriatric 
2018;378:113-125. Available at: Assessment. Clin Interv Aging 2014;9:1645-1660. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29151359. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25302022. 
322. Lisberg A, Cummings A, Goldman JW, et al. A phase II study of 329. Pallis AG, Gridelli C, Wedding U, et al. Management of elderly 
pembrolizumab in EGFR-mutant, PD-L1+, tyrosine kinase inhibitor naive patients with NSCLC; updated expert's opinion paper: EORTC Elderly 
patients with advanced NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2018;13:1138-1145. Task Force, Lung Cancer Group and International Society for Geriatric 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29874546. Oncology. Ann Oncol 2014;25:1270-1283. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24638905. 
323. Camidge DR, Dziadziuszko R, Peters S, et al. Updated efficacy and 
safety data and impact of the EML4-ALK fusion variant on the efficacy of 330. Brunelli A, Kim AW, Berger KI, Addrizzo-Harris DJ. Physiologic 
alectinib in untreated ALK-positive advanced non-small cell lung cancer in evaluation of the patient with lung cancer being considered for resectional 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-110 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
surgery: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American 337. Villamizar N, Swanson SJ. Lobectomy vs. segmentectomy for 
College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. NSCLC (T<2 cm). Ann Cardiothorac Surg 2014;3:160-166. Available at: 
Chest 2013;143:e166S-e190S. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24790839. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649437. 
338. Landreneau RJ, Normolle DP, Christie NA, et al. Recurrence and 
331. Turner G, Clegg A, British Geriatrics S, et al. Best practice guidelines survival outcomes after anatomic segmentectomy versus lobectomy for 
for the management of frailty: a British Geriatrics Society, Age UK and clinical stage I non-small-cell lung cancer: a propensity-matched analysis. 
Royal College of General Practitioners report. Age Ageing J Clin Oncol 2014;32:2449-2455. Available at: 
2014;43:744-747. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24982447. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25336440. 
339. Altorki NK, Yip R, Hanaoka T, et al. Sublobar resection is equivalent 
332. Vairaktarakis C, Tsiamis V, Soursou G, et al. A computer-aided to lobectomy for clinical stage 1A lung cancer in solid nodules. J Thorac 
diagnosis system for geriatrics assessment and frailty evaluation. Adv Exp Cardiovasc Surg 2014;147:754-762; Discussion 762-754. Available at: 
Med Biol 2015;820:69-77. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24280722. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25417017. 
340. Sienel W, Dango S, Kirschbaum A, et al. Sublobar resections in 
333. Wildiers H, Heeren P, Puts M, et al. International Society of Geriatric stage IA non-small cell lung cancer: segmentectomies result in 
Oncology consensus on geriatric assessment in older patients with significantly better cancer-related survival than wedge resections. Eur J 
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:2595-2603. Available at: Cardiothorac Surg 2008;33:728-734. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25071125. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18261918. 
334. Kozower BD, Larner JM, Detterbeck FC, Jones DR. Special 341. Sienel W, Stremmel C, Kirschbaum A, et al. Frequency of local 
treatment issues in non-small cell lung cancer: Diagnosis and recurrence following segmentectomy of stage IA non-small cell lung 
management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest cancer is influenced by segment localisation and width of resection 
Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest margins--implications for patient selection for segmentectomy. Eur J 
2013;143:e369S-e399S. Available at: Cardiothorac Surg 2007;31:522-527; discussion 527-528. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649447. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17229574. 
335. Boffa DJ, Allen MS, Grab JD, et al. Data from The Society of 342. Narsule CK, Ebright MI, Fernando HC. Sublobar versus lobar 
Thoracic Surgeons General Thoracic Surgery database: the surgical resection: current status. Cancer J 2011;17:23-27. Available at: 
management of primary lung tumors. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21263263. 
2008;135:247-254. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18242243. 343. Videtic GMM, Donington J, Giuliani M, et al. Stereotactic body 
radiation therapy for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer: Executive 
336. Scott WJ, Howington J, Feigenberg S, et al. Treatment of non-small Summary of an ASTRO Evidence-Based Guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 
cell lung cancer stage I and stage II: ACCP evidence-based clinical 2017;7:295-301. Available at: 
practice guidelines (2nd edition). Chest 2007;132:234S-242S. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28596092. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17873171. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-111 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
344. Timmerman R, Paulus R, Galvin J, et al. Stereotactic body radiation Thorac Oncol 2009;4:568-577. Available at: 
therapy for inoperable early stage lung cancer. JAMA https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19357537. 
2010;303:1070-1076. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20233825. 351. Swanson SJ, Batirel HF. Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) 
resection for lung cancer. Surg Clin North Am 2002;82:541-559. Available 
345. Woody NM, Stephans KL, Marwaha G, et al. Stereotactic body at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12371584. 
radiation therapy for non-small cell lung cancer tumors greater than 5 cm: 
Safety and efficacy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:325-331. 352. Mahtabifard A, Fuller CB, McKenna RJ, Jr. Video-assisted thoracic 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25841625. surgery sleeve lobectomy: a case series. Ann Thorac Surg 
2008;85:S729-732. Available at: 
346. Grills IS, Mangona VS, Welsh R, et al. Outcomes after stereotactic https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18222205. 
lung radiotherapy or wedge resection for stage I non-small-cell lung 
cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:928-935. Available at: 353. Shaw JP, Dembitzer FR, Wisnivesky JP, et al. Video-assisted 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20065181. thoracoscopic lobectomy: state of the art and future directions. Ann Thorac 
Surg 2008;85:S705-709. Available at: 
347. Donington J, Ferguson M, Mazzone P, et al. American College of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18222201. 
Chest Physicians and Society of Thoracic Surgeons consensus statement 
for evaluation and management for high-risk patients with stage I 354. Cheng D, Downey RJ, Kernstine K, et al. Video-assisted thoracic 
non-small cell lung cancer. Chest 2012;142:1620-1635. Available at: surgery in lung cancer resection: a meta-analysis and systematic review of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23208335. controlled trials. Innovations (Phila) 2007;2:261-292. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22437196. 
348. Darling GE, Allen MS, Decker PA, et al. Randomized trial of 
mediastinal lymph node sampling versus complete lymphadenectomy 355. Alam N, Flores RM. Video-assisted thoracic surgery (VATS) 
during pulmonary resection in the patient with N0 or N1 (less than hilar) lobectomy: the evidence base. JSLS 2007;11:368-374. Available at: 
non-small cell carcinoma: results of the American College of Surgery https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17931521. 
Oncology Group Z0030 Trial. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
2011;141:662-670. Available at: 356. Whitson BA, Andrade RS, Boettcher A, et al. Video-assisted 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21335122. thoracoscopic surgery is more favorable than thoracotomy for resection of 
clinical stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 
349. Allen MS, Darling GE, Pechet TT, et al. Morbidity and mortality of 2007;83:1965-1970. Available at: 
major pulmonary resections in patients with early-stage lung cancer: initial https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17532379. 
results of the randomized, prospective ACOSOG Z0030 trial. Ann Thorac 
Surg 2006;81:1013-1019; discussion 1019-1020. Available at: 357. Whitson BA, Groth SS, Duval SJ, et al. Surgery for early-stage 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16488712. non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic review of the video-assisted 
thoracoscopic surgery versus thoracotomy approaches to lobectomy. Ann 
350. Rusch VW, Asamura H, Watanabe H, et al. The IASLC lung cancer Thorac Surg 2008;86:2008-2016; discussion 2016-2008. Available at: 
staging project: a proposal for a new international lymph node map in the https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19022040. 
forthcoming seventh edition of the TNM classification for lung cancer. J 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-112 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
358. Scott WJ, Allen MS, Darling G, et al. Video-assisted thoracic surgery 2013;16:244-249. Available at: 
versus open lobectomy for lung cancer: a secondary analysis of data from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23169877. 
the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group Z0030 randomized 
clinical trial. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2010;139:976-981; discussion 366. Ilonen IK, Rasanen JV, Knuuttila A, et al. Anatomic thoracoscopic 
981-973. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20172539. lung resection for non-small cell lung cancer in stage I is associated with 
less morbidity and shorter hospitalization than thoracotomy. Acta Oncol 
359. Atkins BZ, Harpole DH, Jr., Mangum JH, et al. Pulmonary 2011;50:1126-1132. Available at: 
segmentectomy by thoracotomy or thoracoscopy: reduced hospital length https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21314296. 
of stay with a minimally-invasive approach. Ann Thorac Surg 
2007;84:1107-1112; discussion 1112-1103. Available at: 367. Villamizar NR, Darrabie MD, Burfeind WR, et al. Thoracoscopic 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17888955. lobectomy is associated with lower morbidity compared with thoracotomy. 
J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2009;138:419-425. Available at: 
360. Swanson SJ, Herndon JE, 2nd, D'Amico TA, et al. Video-assisted https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19619789. 
thoracic surgery lobectomy: report of CALGB 39802--a prospective, 
multi-institution feasibility study. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:4993-4997. 368. Paul S, Altorki NK, Sheng S, et al. Thoracoscopic lobectomy is 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17971599. associated with lower morbidity than open lobectomy: a 
propensity-matched analysis from the STS database. J Thorac Cardiovasc 
361. Ohtsuka T, Nomori H, Horio H, et al. Is major pulmonary resection by Surg 2010;139:366-378. Available at: 
video-assisted thoracic surgery an adequate procedure in clinical stage I https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20106398. 
lung cancer? Chest 2004;125:1742-1746. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15136385. 369. Su S, Scott WJ, Allen MS, et al. Patterns of survival and recurrence 
after surgical treatment of early stage non-small cell lung carcinoma in the 
362. McKenna RJ, Jr. New approaches to the minimally invasive treatment ACOSOG Z0030 (ALLIANCE) trial. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
of lung cancer. Cancer J 2005;11:73-76. Available at: 2014;147:747-752: Discussion 752-743. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15831227. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24290575. 
363. Demmy TL, Nwogu C. Is video-assisted thoracic surgery lobectomy 370. Lee PC, Nasar A, Port JL, et al. Long-term survival after lobectomy 
better? Quality of life considerations. Ann Thorac Surg 2008;85:S719-728. for non-small cell lung cancer by video-assisted thoracic surgery versus 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18222204. thoracotomy. Ann Thorac Surg 2013;96:951-960; discussion 960-951. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23866808. 
364. Cattaneo SM, Park BJ, Wilton AS, et al. Use of video-assisted 
thoracic surgery for lobectomy in the elderly results in fewer complications. 371. Thomas P, Doddoli C, Yena S, et al. VATS is an adequate 
Ann Thorac Surg 2008;85:231-235; discussion 235-236. Available at: oncological operation for stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Eur J 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18154816. Cardiothorac Surg 2002;21:1094-1099. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12048091. 
365. Cao C, Manganas C, Ang SC, et al. Video-assisted thoracic surgery 
versus open thoracotomy for non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis 372. Roviaro G, Varoli F, Vergani C, et al. Long-term survival after 
of propensity score-matched patients. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg videothoracoscopic lobectomy for stage I lung cancer. Chest 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-113 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2004;126:725-732. Available at: efficacy of video-assisted thoracic surgery lobectomy for early-stage 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15364748. non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:2553-2562. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19289625. 
373. Solaini L, Prusciano F, Bagioni P, Poddie DB. Long-term results of 
video-assisted thoracic surgery lobectomy for stage I non-small cell lung 381. Cao C, Manganas C, Ang SC, Yan TD. A meta-analysis of 
cancer: a single-centre study of 104 cases. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac unmatched and matched patients comparing video-assisted thoracoscopic 
Surg 2004;3:57-62. Available at: lobectomy and conventional open lobectomy. Ann Cardiothorac Surg 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17670176. 2012;1:16-23. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23977459. 
374. Demmy TL, Plante AJ, Nwogu CE, et al. Discharge independence 
with minimally invasive lobectomy. Am J Surg 2004;188:698-702. 382. Nakamura H. Systematic review of published studies on safety and 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15619486. efficacy of thoracoscopic and robot-assisted lobectomy for lung cancer. 
Ann Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2014;20:93-98. Available at: 
375. Demmy TL. VATS lobectomy for frail or complex patients. Chest https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24583699. 
Meeting Abstracts 2003;124:234S. Available at: 
https://meeting.chestpubs.org/cgi/reprint/124/4/234S.pdf. 383. Swanson SJ, Miller DL, McKenna RJ, Jr., et al. Comparing 
robot-assisted thoracic surgical lobectomy with conventional 
376. Nicastri DG, Wisnivesky JP, Litle VR, et al. Thoracoscopic lobectomy: video-assisted thoracic surgical lobectomy and wedge resection: results 
report on safety, discharge independence, pain, and chemotherapy from a multihospital database (Premier). J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
tolerance. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2008;135:642-647. Available at: 2014;147:929-937. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18329487. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24210834. 
377. Petersen RP, Pham D, Burfeind WR, et al. Thoracoscopic lobectomy 384. Martins RG, D'Amico TA, Loo BW, Jr., et al. The management of 
facilitates the delivery of chemotherapy after resection for lung cancer. patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer with N2 mediastinal 
Ann Thorac Surg 2007;83:1245-1249; discussion 1250. Available at: node involvement. J Natl Compr Canc Netw 2012;10:599-613. Available 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17383320. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22570291. 
378. Hanna JM, Berry MF, D'Amico TA. Contraindications of 385. Farjah F, Flum DR, Varghese TK, Jr., et al. Surgeon specialty and 
video-assisted thoracoscopic surgical lobectomy and determinants of long-term survival after pulmonary resection for lung cancer. Ann Thorac 
conversion to open. J Thorac Dis 2013;5 Suppl 3:S182-189. Available at: Surg 2009;87:995-1004; discussion 1005-1006. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24040521. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19324119. 
379. Yan TD, Cao C, D'Amico TA, et al. Video-assisted thoracoscopic 386. Albain KS, Swann RS, Rusch VW, et al. Radiotherapy plus 
surgery lobectomy at 20 years: a consensus statement. Eur J chemotherapy with or without surgical resection for stage III non-small-cell 
Cardiothorac Surg 2014;45:633-639. Available at: lung cancer: a phase III randomised controlled trial. Lancet 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24130372. 2009;374:379-386. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19632716. 
380. Yan TD, Black D, Bannon PG, McCaughan BC. Systematic review 
and meta-analysis of randomized and nonrandomized trials on safety and 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-114 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
387. van Meerbeeck JP, Kramer GW, Van Schil PE, et al. Randomized 394. Gopal RS, Dubey S, Rosenzweig KE, et al. ACR Appropriateness 
controlled trial of resection versus radiotherapy after induction Criteria(R) on Induction and Adjuvant Therapy for Stage N2 
chemotherapy in stage IIIA-N2 non-small-cell lung cancer. J Natl Cancer Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: expert panel on radiation oncology-lung. Int 
Inst 2007;99:442-450. Available at: J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;78:969-974. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17374834. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20813465. 
388. Cerfolio RJ, Bryant AS. Survival of patients with unsuspected N2 395. Evans NR, 3rd, Li S, Wright CD, et al. The impact of induction 
(stage IIIA) nonsmall-cell lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 2008;86:362-366; therapy on morbidity and operative mortality after resection of primary lung 
discussion 366-367. Available at: cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2010;139:991-996 e991-992. Available 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18640297. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20304144. 
389. Sher DJ, Fidler MJ, Liptay MJ, Koshy M. Comparative effectiveness 396. Gaissert HA, Keum DY, Wright CD, et al. POINT: Operative risk of 
of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy versus chemotherapy alone followed pneumonectomy--influence of preoperative induction therapy. J Thorac 
by surgery for patients with stage IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. Lung Cardiovasc Surg 2009;138:289-294. Available at: 
Cancer 2015;88:267-274. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19619768. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25862147. 
397. Mansour Z, Kochetkova EA, Ducrocq X, et al. Induction 
390. Shah AA, Berry MF, Tzao C, et al. Induction chemoradiation is not chemotherapy does not increase the operative risk of pneumonectomy! 
superior to induction chemotherapy alone in stage IIIA lung cancer. Ann Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2007;31:181-185. Available at: 
Thorac Surg 2012;93:1807-1812. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17141515. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22632486. 
398. Weder W, Collaud S, Eberhardt WE, et al. Pneumonectomy is a 
391. Thomas M, Rube C, Hoffknecht P, et al. Effect of preoperative valuable treatment option after neoadjuvant therapy for stage III 
chemoradiation in addition to preoperative chemotherapy: a randomised non-small-cell lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
trial in stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:636-648. 2010;139:1424-1430. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18583190. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20416887. 
392. Higgins K, Chino JP, Marks LB, et al. Preoperative chemotherapy 399. Kappers I, van Sandick JW, Burgers SA, et al. Surgery after induction 
versus preoperative chemoradiotherapy for stage III (N2) non-small-cell chemotherapy in stage IIIA-N2 non-small cell lung cancer: why 
lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2009;75:1462-1467. Available pneumonectomy should be avoided. Lung Cancer 2010;68:222-227. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19467798. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19664843. 
393. Stefani A, Alifano M, Bobbio A, et al. Which patients should be 400. Decaluwe H, De Leyn P, Vansteenkiste J, et al. Surgical 
operated on after induction chemotherapy for N2 non-small cell lung multimodality treatment for baseline resectable stage IIIA-N2 non-small 
cancer? Analysis of a 7-year experience in 175 patients. J Thorac cell lung cancer. Degree of mediastinal lymph node involvement and 
Cardiovasc Surg 2010;140:356-363. Available at: impact on survival. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2009;36:433-439. Available 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20381815. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19502079. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-115 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
401. Lung Cancer Study G. Effects of postoperative mediastinal radiation non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2017;12:293-301. Available at: 
on completely resected stage II and stage III epidermoid cancer of the https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27743888. 
lung. N Engl J Med 1986;315:1377-1381. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2877397. 408. Wang K, Eblan MJ, Deal AM, et al. Cardiac toxicity after radiotherapy 
for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: Pooled analysis of dose-escalation 
402. Keller SM, Adak S, Wagner H, et al. A randomized trial of trials delivering 70 to 90 Gy. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1387-1394. Available at: 
postoperative adjuvant therapy in patients with completely resected stage https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28113017. 
II or IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group. 
N Engl J Med 2000;343:1217-1222. Available at: 409. Al-Halabi H, Paetzold P, Sharp GC, et al. A contralateral 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11071672. esophagus-sparing technique to limit severe esophagitis associated with 
concurrent high-dose radiation and chemotherapy in patients with thoracic 
403. Douillard JY, Rosell R, De Lena M, et al. Impact of postoperative malignancies. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:803-810. Available at: 
radiation therapy on survival in patients with complete resection and stage https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26104934. 
I, II, or IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer treated with adjuvant chemotherapy: 
the adjuvant Navelbine International Trialist Association (ANITA) 410. Amini A, Yang J, Williamson R, et al. Dose constraints to prevent 
Randomized Trial. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:695-701. radiation-induced brachial plexopathy in patients treated for lung cancer. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18439766. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:e391-398. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22284035. 
404. Bradley JD, Paulus R, Graham MV, et al. Phase II trial of 
postoperative adjuvant paclitaxel/carboplatin and thoracic radiotherapy in 411. Graham MV, Purdy JA, Emami B, et al. Clinical dose-volume 
resected stage II and IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer: promising long-term histogram analysis for pneumonitis after 3D treatment for non-small cell 
results of the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group--RTOG 9705. J Clin lung cancer (NSCLC). Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 1999;45:323-329. 
Oncol 2005;23:3480-3487. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10487552. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15908657. 
412. Palma DA, Senan S, Tsujino K, et al. Predicting radiation 
405. Feigenberg SJ, Hanlon AL, Langer C, et al. A phase II study of pneumonitis after chemoradiation therapy for lung cancer: an international 
concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel and thoracic radiotherapy for individual patient data meta-analysis. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
completely resected stage II and IIIA non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac 2013;85:444-450. Available at: 
Oncol 2007;2:287-292. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22682812. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17409799. 
413. Lutz ST, Jones J, Chow E. Role of radiation therapy in palliative care 
406. Jaklitsch MT, Herndon JE, 2nd, DeCamp MM, Jr., et al. Nodal of the patient with cancer. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:2913-2919. Available at: 
downstaging predicts survival following induction chemotherapy for stage https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25113773. 
IIIA (N2) non-small cell lung cancer in CALGB protocol #8935. J Surg 
Oncol 2006;94:599-606. Available at: 414. McAvoy S, Ciura K, Wei C, et al. Definitive reirradiation for 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17039491. locoregionally recurrent non-small cell lung cancer with proton beam 
therapy or intensity modulated radiation therapy: predictors of high-grade 
407. Speirs CK, DeWees TA, Rehman S, et al. Heart dose is an toxicity and survival outcomes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
independent dosimetric predictor of overall survival in locally advanced 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-116 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2014;90:819-827. Available at: 422. Chang JY, Verma V, Li M, et al. Proton beam radiotherapy and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25220718. concurrent chemotherapy for unresectable stage III non-small cell lung 
cancer: Final results of a phase 2 study. JAMA Oncol 2017;3:e172032. 
415. Expert Panel on Radiation Oncology-Brain M, Lo SS, Gore EM, et al. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28727865. 
ACR Appropriateness Criteria(R) pre-irradiation evaluation and 
management of brain metastases. J Palliat Med 2014;17:880-886. 423. Gregoire V, Mackie TR. State of the art on dose prescription, 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24971478. reporting and recording in Intensity-Modulated Radiation Therapy (ICRU 
report No. 83). Cancer Radiother 2011;15:555-559. Available at: 
416. Expert Panel on Radiation Oncology-Bone M, Lo SS, Lutz ST, et al. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21802333. 
ACR Appropriateness Criteria (R) spinal bone metastases. J Palliat Med 
2013;16:9-19. Available at: 424. Teoh M, Clark CH, Wood K, et al. Volumetric modulated arc therapy: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23167547. a review of current literature and clinical use in practice. Br J Radiol 
2011;84:967-996. Available at: 
417. Expert Panel On Radiation Oncology-Bone M, Lutz ST, Lo SS, et al. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22011829. 
ACR Appropriateness Criteria(R) non-spine bone metastases. J Palliat 
Med 2012;15:521-526. Available at: 425. Chen AB, Neville BA, Sher DJ, et al. Survival outcomes after 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22536988. radiation therapy for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer after adoption of 
computed tomography-based simulation. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:2305-2311. 
418. Patel SH, Robbins JR, Gore EM, et al. ACR Appropriateness Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21537034. 
Criteria(R) follow-up and retreatment of brain metastases. Am J Clin Oncol 
2012;35:302-306. Available at: 426. Liao ZX, Komaki RR, Thames HD, Jr., et al. Influence of technologic 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22609733. advances on outcomes in patients with unresectable, locally advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer receiving concomitant chemoradiotherapy. Int J 
419. Chang JY, Kestin LL, Barriger RB, et al. ACR Appropriateness Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:775-781. Available at: 
Criteria(R) nonsurgical treatment for locally advanced non-small-cell lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19515503. 
cancer: good performance status/definitive intent. Oncology (Williston 
Park) 2014;28:706-710, 712, 714 passim. Available at: 427. Terasawa T, Dvorak T, Ip S, et al. Systematic review: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25140629. charged-particle radiation therapy for cancer. Ann Intern Med 
2009;151:556-565. Available at: 
420. Rosenzweig KE, Chang JY, Chetty IJ, et al. ACR appropriateness https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19755348. 
criteria nonsurgical treatment for non-small-cell lung cancer: poor 
performance status or palliative intent. J Am Coll Radiol 2013;10:654-664. 428. Chun SG, Hu C, Choy H, et al. Impact of intensity-modulated 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23890874. radiation therapy technique for locally advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer: A secondary analysis of the NRG Oncology RTOG 0617 
421. Sejpal S, Komaki R, Tsao A, et al. Early findings on toxicity of proton randomized clinical trial. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:56-62. Available at: 
beam therapy with concurrent chemotherapy for nonsmall cell lung cancer. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28034064. 
Cancer 2011;117:3004-3013. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21264827. 429. Ung Y, Gu C-S, Cline K, et al. An Ontario Clinical Oncology Group 
(OCOG) randomized trial (PET SMART) of FDG PET/CT in patients with 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-117 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
stage 3 non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): impact of PET on radiation for non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis. Radiother Oncol 
treatment volumes [Abstract O35.01]. J Thorac Oncol 2011;6:S428. 2010;95:32-40. Available at: 
Available at: https://journals.lww.com/jto/toc/2011/06001. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19733410. 
430. MacManus M, Nestle U, Rosenzweig KE, et al. Use of PET and 437. Keall PJ, Mageras GS, Balter JM, et al. The management of 
PET/CT for radiation therapy planning: IAEA expert report 2006-2007. respiratory motion in radiation oncology report of AAPM Task Group 76. 
Radiother Oncol 2009;91:85-94. Available at: Med Phys 2006;33:3874-3900. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19100641. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17089851. 
431. Everitt S, Herschtal A, Callahan J, et al. High rates of tumor growth 438. Kong FM, Pan C, Eisbruch A, Ten Haken RK. Physical models and 
and disease progression detected on serial pretreatment simpler dosimetric descriptors of radiation late toxicity. Semin Radiat 
fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/computed tomography Oncol 2007;17:108-120. Available at: 
scans in radical radiotherapy candidates with nonsmall cell lung cancer. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17395041. 
Cancer 2010;116:5030-5037. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20623786. 439. Timmerman RD. An overview of hypofractionation and introduction to 
this issue of seminars in radiation oncology. Semin Radiat Oncol 
432. Mohammed N, Kestin LL, Grills IS, et al. Rapid disease progression 2008;18:215-222. Available at: 
with delay in treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18725106. 
Biol Phys 2011;79:466-472. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20471184. 440. Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et al. Induction chemoradiation and 
surgical resection for superior sulcus non-small-cell lung carcinomas: 
433. Chang JY, Zhang X, Wang X, et al. Significant reduction of normal long-term results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup 
tissue dose by proton radiotherapy compared with three-dimensional Trial 0160). J Clin Oncol 2007;25:313-318. Available at: 
conformal or intensity-modulated radiation therapy in Stage I or Stage III https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17235046. 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2006;65:1087-1096. Available at: 441. Cerfolio RJ, Bryant AS, Jones VL, Cerfolio RM. Pulmonary resection 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16682145. after concurrent chemotherapy and high dose (60Gy) radiation for 
non-small cell lung cancer is safe and may provide increased survival. Eur 
434. Bush DA, Slater JD, Shin BB, et al. Hypofractionated proton beam J Cardiothorac Surg 2009;35:718-723; discussion 723. Available at: 
radiotherapy for stage I lung cancer. Chest 2004;126:1198-1203. Available https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19233668. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15486383. 
442. Kwong KF, Edelman MJ, Suntharalingam M, et al. High-dose 
435. Nihei K, Ogino T, Ishikura S, Nishimura H. High-dose proton beam radiotherapy in trimodality treatment of Pancoast tumors results in high 
therapy for Stage I non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol pathologic complete response rates and excellent long-term survival. J 
Phys 2006;65:107-111. Available at: Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2005;129:1250-1257. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16458447. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15942564. 
436. Grutters JP, Kessels AG, Pijls-Johannesma M, et al. Comparison of 443. Sonett JR, Suntharalingam M, Edelman MJ, et al. Pulmonary 
the effectiveness of radiotherapy with photons, protons and carbon-ions resection after curative intent radiotherapy (>59 Gy) and concurrent 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-118 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Thorac Surg 452. Gagliardi G, Constine LS, Moiseenko V, et al. Radiation dose-volume 
2004;78:1200-1205; discussion 1206. Available at: effects in the heart. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:S77-85. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15464470. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20171522. 
444. ICRU. ICRU Report 50. Prescribing, Recording and Reporting Photon 453. Kirkpatrick JP, van der Kogel AJ, Schultheiss TE. Radiation 
Beam Therapy. Bethesda, MD: International Commission on Radiation dose-volume effects in the spinal cord. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
Units and Measurements; 1993. 2010;76:S42-49. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20171517. 
445. ICRU. Prescribing, Recording and Reporting Photon Beam Therapy 
(Report 62) (Supplement to ICRU Report 50). Bethesda, MD: ICRU; 1999. 454. Kong FM, Hayman JA, Griffith KA, et al. Final toxicity results of a 
radiation-dose escalation study in patients with non-small-cell lung cancer 
446. ICRU Report 83: Prescribing, Recording, and Reporting (NSCLC): predictors for radiation pneumonitis and fibrosis. Int J Radiat 
Intensity-Modulated Photon-Beam Therapy (IMRT). Bethesda, MD: Oncol Biol Phys 2006;65:1075-1086. Available at: 
International Commission on Radiation Units and Measurements; 2010. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16647222. 
Available at: https://bit.ly/2pBwGkl. 
455. Hernando ML, Marks LB, Bentel GC, et al. Radiation-induced 
447. Group IDW, Holmes T, Das R, et al. American Society of Radiation pulmonary toxicity: a dose-volume histogram analysis in 201 patients with 
Oncology recommendations for documenting intensity-modulated radiation lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2001;51:650-659. Available at: 
therapy treatments. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2009;74:1311-1318. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11597805. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19616738. 
456. Kim TH, Cho KH, Pyo HR, et al. Dose-volumetric parameters for 
448. Kong FM, Ritter T, Quint DJ, et al. Consideration of dose limits for predicting severe radiation pneumonitis after three-dimensional conformal 
organs at risk of thoracic radiotherapy: atlas for lung, proximal bronchial radiation therapy for lung cancer. Radiology 2005;235:208-215. Available 
tree, esophagus, spinal cord, ribs, and brachial plexus. Int J Radiat Oncol at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15703313. 
Biol Phys 2011;81:1442-1457. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20934273. 457. Wang S, Liao Z, Wei X, et al. Analysis of clinical and dosimetric 
factors associated with treatment-related pneumonitis (TRP) in patients 
449. Marks LB, Yorke ED, Jackson A, et al. Use of normal tissue with non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) treated with concurrent 
complication probability models in the clinic. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys chemotherapy and three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy (3D-CRT). 
2010;76:S10-19. Available at: Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;66:1399-1407. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20171502. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16997503. 
450. Marks LB, Bentzen SM, Deasy JO, et al. Radiation dose-volume 458. Rose J, Rodrigues G, Yaremko B, et al. Systematic review of 
effects in the lung. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:S70-76. Available dose-volume parameters in the prediction of esophagitis in thoracic 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20171521. radiotherapy. Radiother Oncol 2009;91:282-287. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18950881. 
451. Werner-Wasik M, Yorke E, Deasy J, et al. Radiation dose-volume 
effects in the esophagus. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:S86-93. 459. Hall WH, Guiou M, Lee NY, et al. Development and validation of a 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20171523. standardized method for contouring the brachial plexus: preliminary 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-119 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
dosimetric analysis among patients treated with IMRT for head-and-neck RTOG 0117. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2475-2480. Available at: 
cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:1362-1367. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20368547. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18448267. 
466. Bradley JD, Moughan J, Graham MV, et al. A phase I/II radiation 
460. Bezjak A, Temin S, Franklin G, et al. Definitive and adjuvant dose escalation study with concurrent chemotherapy for patients with 
radiotherapy in locally advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: American inoperable stages I to III non-small-cell lung cancer: phase I results of 
Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline endorsement of RTOG 0117. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;77:367-372. Available at: 
the American Society for Radiation Oncology Evidence-Based Clinical https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20457350. 
Practice Guideline. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:2100-2105. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25944914. 467. Schild SE, Fan W, Stinchcombe TE, et al. Toxicity related to 
radiotherapy dose and targeting strategy: A pooled analysis of cooperative 
461. Bradley J, Graham MV, Winter K, et al. Toxicity and outcome results group trials of combined modality therapy for locally advanced non-small 
of RTOG 9311: a phase I-II dose-escalation study using three-dimensional cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2019;14:298-303. Available at: 
conformal radiotherapy in patients with inoperable non-small-cell lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30292852. 
carcinoma. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2005;61:318-328. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15667949. 468. Kong FM, Ten Haken RK, Schipper MJ, et al. High-dose radiation 
improved local tumor control and overall survival in patients with 
462. Dess RT, Sun Y, Matuszak MM, et al. Cardiac events after radiation inoperable/unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: long-term results of a 
therapy: Combined analysis of prospective multicenter Trials for locally radiation dose escalation study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1395-1402. 2005;63:324-333. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28301264. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16168827. 
463. Bradley JD, Paulus R, Komaki R, et al. Standard-dose versus 469. Zhao L, West BT, Hayman JA, et al. High radiation dose may reduce 
high-dose conformal radiotherapy with concurrent and consolidation the negative effect of large gross tumor volume in patients with medically 
carboplatin plus paclitaxel with or without cetuximab for patients with stage inoperable early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
IIIA or IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer (RTOG 0617): a randomised, Phys 2007;68:103-110. Available at: 
two-by-two factorial phase 3 study. The Lancet Oncology https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17363189. 
2015;16:187-199. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25601342. 470. Wang L, Correa CR, Zhao L, et al. The effect of radiation dose and 
chemotherapy on overall survival in 237 patients with Stage III 
464. Cox JD. Are the results of RTOG 0617 mysterious? Int J Radiat non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:1042-1044. Available at: 2009;73:1383-1390. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22284026. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18929449. 
465. Bradley JD, Bae K, Graham MV, et al. Primary analysis of the phase 471. Rosenman JG, Halle JS, Socinski MA, et al. High-dose conformal 
II component of a phase I/II dose intensification study using radiotherapy for treatment of stage IIIA/IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer: 
three-dimensional conformal radiation therapy and concurrent technical issues and results of a phase I/II trial. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
chemotherapy for patients with inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer: Phys 2002;54:348-356. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12243807. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-120 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
472. Schild SE, McGinnis WL, Graham D, et al. Results of a Phase I trial 478. Palussiere J, Chomy F, Savina M, et al. Radiofrequency ablation of 
of concurrent chemotherapy and escalating doses of radiation for stage IA non-small cell lung cancer in patients ineligible for surgery: 
unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys results of a prospective multicenter phase II trial. J Cardiothorac Surg 
2006;65:1106-1111. Available at: 2018;13:91. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30143031. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16730134. 
479. Dupuy DE, Fernando HC, Hillman S, et al. Radiofrequency ablation 
473. Socinski MA, Blackstock AW, Bogart JA, et al. Randomized phase II of stage IA non-small cell lung cancer in medically inoperable patients: 
trial of induction chemotherapy followed by concurrent chemotherapy and Results from the American College of Surgeons Oncology Group Z4033 
dose-escalated thoracic conformal radiotherapy (74 Gy) in stage III (Alliance) trial. Cancer 2015;121:3491-3498. Available at: 
non-small-cell lung cancer: CALGB 30105. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26096694. 
2008;26:2457-2463. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18487565. 480. Huang BY, Li XM, Song XY, et al. Long-term results of CT-guided 
percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of inoperable patients with stage Ia 
474. Stinchcombe TE, Lee CB, Moore DT, et al. Long-term follow-up of a non-small cell lung cancer: A retrospective cohort study. Int J Surg 
phase I/II trial of dose escalating three-dimensional conformal thoracic 2018;53:143-150. Available at: 
radiation therapy with induction and concurrent carboplatin and paclitaxel https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29555533. 
in unresectable stage IIIA/B non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 
2008;3:1279-1285. Available at: 481. Ambrogi MC, Fanucchi O, Cioni R, et al. Long-term results of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18978563. radiofrequency ablation treatment of stage I non-small cell lung cancer: a 
prospective intention-to-treat study. J Thorac Oncol 2011;6:2044-2051. 
475. Machtay M, Bae K, Movsas B, et al. Higher biologically effective dose Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22052222. 
of radiotherapy is associated with improved outcomes for locally advanced 
non-small cell lung carcinoma treated with chemoradiation: an analysis of 482. Bilal H, Mahmood S, Rajashanker B, Shah R. Is radiofrequency 
the Radiation Therapy Oncology Group. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys ablation more effective than stereotactic ablative radiotherapy in patients 
2012;82:425-434. Available at: with early stage medically inoperable non-small cell lung cancer? Interact 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20980108. Cardiovasc Thorac Surg 2012;15:258-265. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22581864. 
476. Sun B, Brooks ED, Komaki RU, et al. 7-year follow-up after 
stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for patients with stage I non-small cell 483. Allibhai Z, Taremi M, Bezjak A, et al. The impact of tumor size on 
lung cancer: Results of a phase 2 clinical trial. Cancer outcomes after stereotactic body radiation therapy for medically inoperable 
2017;123:3031-3039. Available at: early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28346656. 2013;87:1064-1070. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24210082. 
477. Taremi M, Hope A, Dahele M, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy 
for medically inoperable lung cancer: prospective, single-center study of 484. Shirvani SM, Jiang J, Chang JY, et al. Comparative effectiveness of 5 
108 consecutive patients. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;82:967-973. treatment strategies for early-stage non-small cell lung cancer in the 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21377293. elderly. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2012;84:1060-1070. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22975611. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-121 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
485. Burdett S, Stewart L, Group PM-a. Postoperative radiotherapy in 492. Sanuki-Fujimoto N, Sumi M, Ito Y, et al. Relation between elective 
non-small-cell lung cancer: update of an individual patient data nodal failure and irradiated volume in non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
meta-analysis. Lung Cancer 2005;47:81-83. Available at: treated with radiotherapy using conventional fields and doses. Radiother 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15603857. Oncol 2009;91:433-437. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19167118. 
486. Gewanter RM, Rosenzweig KE, Chang JY, et al. ACR 
Appropriateness Criteria: nonsurgical treatment for non-small-cell lung 493. Sulman EP, Komaki R, Klopp AH, et al. Exclusion of elective nodal 
cancer: good performance status/definitive intent. Curr Probl Cancer irradiation is associated with minimal elective nodal failure in non-small 
2010;34:228-249. Available at: cell lung cancer. Radiat Oncol 2009;4:5. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20541060. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19183471. 
487. Perez CA, Pajak TF, Rubin P, et al. Long-term observations of the 494. Rosenzweig KE, Sura S, Jackson A, Yorke E. Involved-field radiation 
patterns of failure in patients with unresectable non-oat cell carcinoma of therapy for inoperable non small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 
the lung treated with definitive radiotherapy. Report by the Radiation 2007;25:5557-5561. Available at: 
Therapy Oncology Group. Cancer 1987;59:1874-1881. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17984185. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3032394. 
495. Yuan S, Sun X, Li M, et al. A randomized study of involved-field 
488. Rengan R, Rosenzweig KE, Venkatraman E, et al. Improved local irradiation versus elective nodal irradiation in combination with concurrent 
control with higher doses of radiation in large-volume stage III chemotherapy for inoperable stage III nonsmall cell lung cancer. Am J Clin 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2004;60:741-747. Oncol 2007;30:239-244. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15465190. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17551299. 
489. Mauguen A, Le Pechoux C, Saunders MI, et al. Hyperfractionated or 496. Fernandes AT, Shen J, Finlay J, et al. Elective nodal irradiation (ENI) 
accelerated radiotherapy in lung cancer: an individual patient data vs. involved field radiotherapy (IFRT) for locally advanced non-small cell 
meta-analysis. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2788-2797. Available at: lung cancer (NSCLC): A comparative analysis of toxicities and clinical 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22753901. outcomes. Radiother Oncol 2010;95:178-184. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20356642. 
490. Bradley J, Bae K, Choi N, et al. A phase II comparative study of gross 
tumor volume definition with or without PET/CT fusion in dosimetric 497. Chen M, Bao Y, Ma HL, et al. Involved-field radiotherapy versus 
planning for non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC): primary analysis of elective nodal irradiation in combination with concurrent chemotherapy for 
Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0515. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol locally advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a prospective randomized 
Phys 2012;82:435-441 e431. Available at: study. Biomed Res Int 2013;2013:371819. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21075551. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23762840. 
491. Belderbos JS, Kepka L, Spring Kong FM, et al. Report from the 498. Albain KS, Rusch VW, Crowley JJ, et al. Concurrent 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) consultants' meeting on cisplatin/etoposide plus chest radiotherapy followed by surgery for stages 
elective nodal irradiation in lung cancer: non-small-Cell lung cancer IIIA (N2) and IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer: mature results of Southwest 
(NSCLC). Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:335-342. Available at: Oncology Group phase II study 8805. J Clin Oncol 1995;13:1880-1892. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18793953. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7636530. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-122 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
499. Francis S, Orton A, Stoddard G, et al. Sequencing of postoperative lung cancer: analysis of an international contouring study. Int J Radiat 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy for locally advanced or incompletely Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:1106-1113. Available at: 
resected non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:333-341. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19560881. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29236592. 
506. Rodrigues G, Videtic GM, Sur R, et al. Palliative thoracic radiotherapy 
500. Sher DJ, Fidler MJ, Seder CW, et al. Relationship between radiation in lung cancer: An American Society for Radiation Oncology 
therapy dose and outcome in patients treated with neoadjuvant evidence-based clinical practice guideline. Pract Radiat Oncol 
chemoradiation therapy and surgery for stage IIIA non-small cell lung 2011;1:60-71. Available at: 
cancer: A population-based, comparative effectiveness analysis. Int J https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25740118. 
Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2015;92:307-316. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25838187. 507. Rodrigues G, Macbeth F, Burmeister B, et al. Consensus statement 
on palliative lung radiotherapy: third international consensus workshop on 
501. Suntharalingam M, Paulus R, Edelman MJ, et al. Radiation therapy palliative radiotherapy and symptom control. Clin Lung Cancer 
oncology group protocol 02-29: a phase II trial of neoadjuvant therapy with 2012;13:1-5. Available at: 
concurrent chemotherapy and full-dose radiation therapy followed by https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21729656. 
surgical resection and consolidative therapy for locally advanced 
non-small cell carcinoma of the lung. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 508. Chen AB, Cronin A, Weeks JC, et al. Palliative radiation therapy 
2012;84:456-463. Available at: practice in patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: a Cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22543206. Care Outcomes Research and Surveillance Consortium (CanCORS) 
Study. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:558-564. Available at: 
502. Kelsey CR, Light KL, Marks LB. Patterns of failure after resection of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23295799. 
non-small-cell lung cancer: implications for postoperative radiation therapy 
volumes. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2006;65:1097-1105. Available at: 509. Chow E, Harris K, Fan G, et al. Palliative radiotherapy trials for bone 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16682136. metastases: a systematic review. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1423-1436. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17416863. 
503. Corso CD, Rutter CE, Wilson LD, et al. Re-evaluation of the role of 
postoperative radiotherapy and the impact of radiation dose for 510. Lutz S, Berk L, Chang E, et al. Palliative radiotherapy for bone 
non-small-cell lung cancer using the National Cancer Database. J Thorac metastases: an ASTRO evidence-based guideline. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
Oncol 2015;10:148-155. Available at: Phys 2011;79:965-976. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25325781. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21277118. 
504. Lally BE, Zelterman D, Colasanto JM, et al. Postoperative 511. Cross CK, Berman S, Buswell L, et al. Prospective study of palliative 
radiotherapy for stage II or III non-small-cell lung cancer using the hypofractionated radiotherapy (8.5 Gy x 2) for patients with symptomatic 
surveillance, epidemiology, and end results database. J Clin Oncol non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2006;24:2998-3006. Available at: 2004;58:1098-1105. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16769986. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15001250. 
505. Spoelstra FO, Senan S, Le Pechoux C, et al. Variations in target 512. A Medical Research Council (MRC) randomised trial of palliative 
volume definition for postoperative radiotherapy in stage III non-small-cell radiotherapy with two fractions or a single fraction in patients with 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-123 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and poor performance 519. Gomez DR, Tang C, Zhang J, et al. Local consolidative therapy vs. 
status. Medical Research Council Lung Cancer Working Party. Br J maintenance therapy or observation for patients with oligometastatic 
Cancer 1992;65:934-941. Available at: non-small-cell lung cancer: Long-term results of a multi-institutional, phase 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1377484. II, randomized study. J Clin Oncol 2019;37:1558-1565. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31067138. 
513. Koshy M, Malik R, Mahmood U, et al. Comparative effectiveness of 
aggressive thoracic radiation therapy and concurrent chemoradiation 520. Petty WJ, Urbanic JJ, Ahmed T, et al. Long-term outcomes of a 
therapy in metastatic lung cancer. Pract Radiat Oncol 2015;5:374-382. phase 2 trial of chemotherapy with consolidative radiation therapy for 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26412340. oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2018;102:527-535. Available at: 
514. Ashworth AB, Senan S, Palma DA, et al. An individual patient data https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30003996. 
metaanalysis of outcomes and prognostic factors after treatment of 
oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. Clin Lung Cancer 521. Falkson CB, Vella ET, Yu E, et al. Guideline for radiotherapy with 
2014;15:346-355. Available at: curative intent in patients with early-stage medically inoperable 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24894943. non-small-cell lung cancer. Curr Oncol 2017;24:e44-e49. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28270731. 
515. Milano MT, Katz AW, Okunieff P. Patterns of recurrence after 
curative-intent radiation for oligometastases confined to one organ. Am J 522. Dahele M, Senan S. The role of stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for 
Clin Oncol 2010;33:157-163. Available at: early-stage and oligometastatic non-small cell lung cancer: evidence for 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19770627. changing paradigms. Cancer Res Treat 2011;43:75-82. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21811422. 
516. Salama JK, Chmura SJ, Mehta N, et al. An initial report of a radiation 
dose-escalation trial in patients with one to five sites of metastatic disease. 523. Heinzerling JH, Kavanagh B, Timmerman RD. Stereotactic ablative 
Clin Cancer Res 2008;14:5255-5259. Available at: radiation therapy for primary lung tumors. Cancer J 2011;17:28-32. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18698045. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21263264. 
517. Gomez DR, Blumenschein GR, Jr., Lee JJ, et al. Local consolidative 524. Potters L, Kavanagh B, Galvin JM, et al. American Society for 
therapy versus maintenance therapy or observation for patients with Therapeutic Radiology and Oncology (ASTRO) and American College of 
oligometastatic non-small-cell lung cancer without progression after Radiology (ACR) practice guideline for the performance of stereotactic 
first-line systemic therapy: a multicentre, randomised, controlled, phase 2 body radiation therapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;76:326-332. 
study. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1672-1682. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20117285. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27789196. 
525. Crabtree TD, Denlinger CE, Meyers BF, et al. Stereotactic body 
518. Iyengar P, Wardak Z, Gerber DE, et al. Consolidative radiotherapy for radiation therapy versus surgical resection for stage I non-small cell lung 
limited metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: A phase 2 randomized cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2010;140:377-386. Available at: 
clinical trial. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:e173501. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20400121. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28973074. 
526. Guckenberger M, Andratschke N, Alheit H, et al. Definition of 
stereotactic body radiotherapy: principles and practice for the treatment of 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-124 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Strahlenther Onkol 2014;190:26-33. failure is distant. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;77:1146-1150. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24052011. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19800181. 
527. Onishi H, Shirato H, Nagata Y, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy 534. Senthi S, Lagerwaard FJ, Haasbeek CJ, et al. Patterns of disease 
(SBRT) for operable stage I non-small-cell lung cancer: can SBRT be recurrence after stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for early stage 
comparable to surgery? Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;81:1352-1358. non-small-cell lung cancer: a retrospective analysis. Lancet Oncol 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20638194. 2012;13:802-809. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22727222. 
528. Baumann P, Nyman J, Hoyer M, et al. Outcome in a prospective 
phase II trial of medically inoperable stage I non-small-cell lung cancer 535. Fakiris AJ, McGarry RC, Yiannoutsos CT, et al. Stereotactic body 
patients treated with stereotactic body radiotherapy. J Clin Oncol radiation therapy for early-stage non-small-cell lung carcinoma: four-year 
2009;27:3290-3296. Available at: results of a prospective phase II study. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19414667. 2009;75:677-682. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19251380. 
529. Iyengar P, Westover K, Timmerman RD. Stereotactic ablative 
radiotherapy (SABR) for non-small cell lung cancer. Semin Respir Crit 536. van den Berg LL, Klinkenberg TJ, Groen HJM, Widder J. Patterns of 
Care Med 2013;34:845-854. Available at: recurrence and survival after surgery or stereotactic radiotherapy for early 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24258574. stage NSCLC. J Thorac Oncol 2015;10:826-831. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25629639. 
530. Nagata Y, Hiraoka M, Shibata T, et al. Stereotactic Body Radiation 
Therapy For T1N0M0 Non-small Cell Lung Cancer: First Report for 537. Verstegen NE, Oosterhuis JW, Palma DA, et al. Stage I-II 
Inoperable Population of a Phase II Trial by Japan Clinical Oncology non-small-cell lung cancer treated using either stereotactic ablative 
Group (JCOG 0403). International Journal of Radiation radiotherapy (SABR) or lobectomy by video-assisted thoracoscopic 
Oncology*Biology*Physics 2012;84:S46. Available at: surgery (VATS): outcomes of a propensity score-matched analysis. Ann 
https://www.redjournal.org/article/S0360-3016(12)01274-6/abstract. Oncol 2013;24:1543-1548. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23425947. 
531. Palma D, Visser O, Lagerwaard FJ, et al. Impact of introducing 
stereotactic lung radiotherapy for elderly patients with stage I 538. Nagata Y, Hiraoka M, Shibata T, et al. A phase II trial of stereotactic 
non-small-cell lung cancer: a population-based time-trend analysis. J Clin body radiation therapy for operable T1N0M0 non-small cell lung cancer: 
Oncol 2010;28:5153-5159. Available at: Japan Clinical Oncology Group (JCOG0403). International Journal of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21041709. Radiation Oncology*Biology*Physics 2010;78:S27-S28. Available at: 
https://www.redjournal.org/article/S0360-3016(10)01078-3/abstract. 
532. Widder J, Postmus D, Ubbels JF, et al. Survival and quality of life 
after stereotactic or 3D-conformal radiotherapy for inoperable early-stage 539. Lagerwaard FJ, Verstegen NE, Haasbeek CJ, et al. Outcomes of 
lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;81:e291-297. Available at: stereotactic ablative radiotherapy in patients with potentially operable 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21640503. stage I non-small cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
2012;83:348-353. Available at: 
533. Bradley JD, El Naqa I, Drzymala RE, et al. Stereotactic body https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22104360. 
radiation therapy for early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer: the pattern of 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-125 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
540. Shirvani SM, Jiang J, Chang JY, et al. Lobectomy, sublobar 547. Shultz DB, Filippi AR, Thariat J, et al. Stereotactic ablative 
resection, and stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for early-stage non-small radiotherapy for pulmonary oligometastases and oligometastatic lung 
cell lung cancers in the elderly. JAMA Surg 2014;149:1244-1253. cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2014;9:1426-1433. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25321323. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25170641. 
541. Timmerman RD, Paulus R, Pass HI, et al. RTOG 0618: Stereotactic 548. Filippi AR, Badellino S, Guarneri A, et al. Outcomes of single fraction 
body radiation therapy (SBRT) to treat operable early-stage lung cancer stereotactic ablative radiotherapy for lung metastases. Technol Cancer 
patients [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2013;31(Suppl 15):Abstract 7523. Res Treat 2014;13:37-45. Available at: 
Available at:  https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23819496. 
542. Matsuo Y, Shibuya K, Nagata Y, et al. Preliminary report of late 549. Chan NK, Abdullah KG, Lubelski D, et al. Stereotactic radiosurgery 
recurrences, at 5 years or more, after stereotactic body radiation therapy for metastatic spine tumors. J Neurosurg Sci 2014;58:37-44. Available at: 
for non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:453-456. Available https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24614791. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22252562. 
550. Ojerholm E, Lee JY, Kolker J, et al. Gamma Knife radiosurgery to 
543. MA IJ, Shoni M, Siegert C, et al. Survival after stereotactic body four or more brain metastases in patients without prior intracranial 
radiation therapy for clinically diagnosed or biopsy-proven early-stage radiation or surgery. Cancer Med 2014;3:565-571. Available at: 
NSCLC: A systematic review and meta-analysis. J Thorac Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24510602. 
2019;14:583-595. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30721798. 551. Timmerman RD, Herman J, Cho LC. Emergence of stereotactic body 
radiation therapy and its impact on current and future clinical practice. J 
544. Rusthoven CG, Kavanagh BD, Karam SD. Improved survival with Clin Oncol 2014;32:2847-2854. Available at: 
stereotactic ablative radiotherapy (SABR) over lobectomy for early stage https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25113761. 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): addressing the fallout of disruptive 
randomized data. Ann Transl Med 2015;3:149. Available at: 552. Salazar OM, Sandhu TS, Lattin PB, et al. Once-weekly, high-dose 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26244136. stereotactic body radiotherapy for lung cancer: 6-year analysis of 60 
early-stage, 42 locally advanced, and 7 metastatic lung cancers. Int J 
545. Chang JY, Senan S, Paul MA, et al. Stereotactic ablative Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:707-715. Available at: 
radiotherapy versus lobectomy for operable stage I non-small-cell lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18455322. 
cancer: a pooled analysis of two randomised trials. Lancet Oncol 
2015;16:630-637. Available at: 553. Guckenberger M, Wulf J, Mueller G, et al. Dose-response 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25981812. relationship for image-guided stereotactic body radiotherapy of pulmonary 
tumors: relevance of 4D dose calculation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
546. Kunkler IH, Audisio R, Belkacemi Y, et al. Review of current best 2009;74:47-54. Available at: 
practice and priorities for research in radiation oncology for elderly patients https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18977095. 
with cancer: the International Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG) task 
force. Ann Oncol 2014;25:2134-2146. Available at: 554. Zhang X, Liu H, Balter P, et al. Positron emission tomography for 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24625455. assessing local failure after stereotactic body radiotherapy for 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-126 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2012;83:1558-1565. Available at: 562. Baker R, Han G, Sarangkasiri S, et al. Clinical and dosimetric 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22572078. predictors of radiation pneumonitis in a large series of patients treated with 
stereotactic body radiation therapy to the lung. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
555. Hoopes DJ, Tann M, Fletcher JW, et al. FDG-PET and stereotactic Phys 2013;85:190-195. Available at: 
body radiotherapy (SBRT) for stage I non-small-cell lung cancer. Lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22929858. 
Cancer 2007;56:229-234. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17353064. 563. Chang JY, Bezjak A, Mornex F, Committee IART. Stereotactic 
ablative radiotherapy for centrally located early stage non-small-cell lung 
556. Chen F, Matsuo Y, Yoshizawa A, et al. Salvage lung resection for cancer: what we have learned. J Thorac Oncol 2015;10:577-585. 
non-small cell lung cancer after stereotactic body radiotherapy in initially Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25514807. 
operable patients. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:1999-2002. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21102261. 564. Chang JY, Li QQ, Xu QY, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiation therapy 
for centrally located early stage or isolated parenchymal recurrences of 
557. Neri S, Takahashi Y, Terashi T, et al. Surgical treatment of local non-small cell lung cancer: how to fly in a "no fly zone". Int J Radiat Oncol 
recurrence after stereotactic body radiotherapy for primary and metastatic Biol Phys 2014;88:1120-1128. Available at: 
lung cancers. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:2003-2007. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24661665. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21102262. 
565. Hadziahmetovic M, Loo BW, Timmerman RD, et al. Stereotactic body 
558. Hearn JW, Videtic GM, Djemil T, Stephans KL. Salvage stereotactic radiation therapy (stereotactic ablative radiotherapy) for stage I non-small 
body radiation therapy (SBRT) for local failure after primary lung SBRT. Int cell lung cancer--updates of radiobiology, techniques, and clinical 
J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2014;90:402-406. Available at: outcomes. Discov Med 2010;9:411-417. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25017480. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20515609. 
559. Trakul N, Harris JP, Le QT, et al. Stereotactic ablative radiotherapy 566. Hara R, Itami J, Kondo T, et al. Clinical outcomes of single-fraction 
for reirradiation of locally recurrent lung tumors. J Thorac Oncol stereotactic radiation therapy of lung tumors. Cancer 2006;106:1347-1352. 
2012;7:1462-1465. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16475150. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22895143. 
567. Chang JY, Balter PA, Dong L, et al. Stereotactic body radiation 
560. Kilburn JM, Kuremsky JG, Blackstock AW, et al. Thoracic therapy in centrally and superiorly located stage I or isolated recurrent 
re-irradiation using stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) techniques as non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;72:967-971. 
first or second course of treatment. Radiother Oncol 2014;110:505-510. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18954709. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24444530. 
568. Takeda A, Sanuki N, Kunieda E, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy 
561. Zhao L, Zhou S, Balter P, et al. Planning target volume D95 and for primary lung cancer at a dose of 50 Gy total in five fractions to the 
mean dose should be considered for optimal local control for stereotactic periphery of the planning target volume calculated using a superposition 
ablative radiation therapy. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys algorithm. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2009;73:442-448. Available at: 
2016;95:1226-1235. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18990507. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27209498. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-127 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
569. Stephans KL, Djemil T, Reddy CA, et al. A comparison of two 576. Chaudhuri AA, Tang C, Binkley MS, et al. Stereotactic ablative 
stereotactic body radiation fractionation schedules for medically inoperable radiotherapy (SABR) for treatment of central and ultra-central lung tumors. 
stage I non-small cell lung cancer: the Cleveland Clinic experience. J Lung Cancer 2015;89:50-56. Available at: 
Thorac Oncol 2009;4:976-982. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25997421. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19633473. 
577. Haseltine JM, Rimner A, Gelblum DY, et al. Fatal complications after 
570. Jin JY, Kong FM, Chetty IJ, et al. Impact of fraction size on lung stereotactic body radiation therapy for central lung tumors abutting the 
radiation toxicity: hypofractionation may be beneficial in dose escalation of proximal bronchial tree. Pract Radiat Oncol 2016;6:e27-33. Available at: 
radiotherapy for lung cancers. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26577006. 
2010;76:782-788. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19577855. 578. Bezjak A, Paulus R, Gaspar LE, et al. Safety and efficacy of a 
five-fraction stereotactic body radiotherapy schedule for centrally located 
571. Onishi H, Shirato H, Nagata Y, et al. Hypofractionated stereotactic non-small-cell lung cancer: NRG Oncology/RTOG 0813 trial. J Clin Oncol 
radiotherapy (HypoFXSRT) for stage I non-small cell lung cancer: updated 2019;37:1316-1325. Available at: 
results of 257 patients in a Japanese multi-institutional study. J Thorac https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30943123. 
Oncol 2007;2:S94-100. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17603311. 579. Bezjak A, Paulus R, Gaspar LE, et al. Primary study endpoint 
analysis for NRG Oncology/RTOG 0813 trial of stereotactic body radiation 
572. Lagerwaard FJ, Haasbeek CJ, Smit EF, et al. Outcomes of therapy (SBRT) for centrally located non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). 
risk-adapted fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy for stage I International Journal of Radiation Oncology*Biology*Physics 2016;94:5-6. 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2008;70:685-692. Available at: https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2015.10.040. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18164849. 
580. Fleckenstein J, Petroff A, Schafers HJ, et al. Long-term outcomes in 
573. Liu MB, Eclov NC, Trakul N, et al. Clinical impact of dose radically treated synchronous vs. metachronous oligometastatic 
overestimation by effective path length calculation in stereotactic ablative non-small-cell lung cancer. BMC Cancer 2016;16:348. Available at: 
radiation therapy of lung tumors. Pract Radiat Oncol 2013;3:294-300. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27255302. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24674401. 
581. De Ruysscher D, Wanders R, van Baardwijk A, et al. Radical 
574. Xiao Y, Papiez L, Paulus R, et al. Dosimetric evaluation of treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer patients with synchronous 
heterogeneity corrections for RTOG 0236: stereotactic body radiotherapy oligometastases: long-term results of a prospective phase II trial 
of inoperable stage I-II non-small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol (Nct01282450). J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:1547-1555. Available at: 
Phys 2009;73:1235-1242. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22982655. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19251095. 
582. Chawla S, Chen Y, Katz AW, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy for 
575. Timmerman R, McGarry R, Yiannoutsos C, et al. Excessive toxicity treatment of adrenal metastases. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 
when treating central tumors in a phase II study of stereotactic body 2009;75:71-75. Available at: 
radiation therapy for medically inoperable early-stage lung cancer. J Clin https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19250766. 
Oncol 2006;24:4833-4839. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17050868. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-128 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
583. Scorsetti M, Alongi F, Filippi AR, et al. Long-term local control N0 M0 non-small cell lung cancer: NCIC CTG BR.25. J Natl Cancer Inst 
achieved after hypofractionated stereotactic body radiotherapy for adrenal 2014;106. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25074417. 
gland metastases: a retrospective analysis of 34 patients. Acta Oncol 
2012;51:618-623. Available at: 590. Sura S, Yorke E, Jackson A, Rosenzweig KE. High-dose 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22263925. radiotherapy for the treatment of inoperable non-small cell lung cancer. 
Cancer J 2007;13:238-242. Available at: 
584. Weickhardt AJ, Scheier B, Burke JM, et al. Local ablative therapy of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17762758. 
oligoprogressive disease prolongs disease control by tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors in oncogene-addicted non-small-cell lung cancer. J Thorac 591. Hu C, Chang EL, Hassenbusch SJ, 3rd, et al. Nonsmall cell lung 
Oncol 2012;7:1807-1814. Available at: cancer presenting with synchronous solitary brain metastasis. Cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23154552. 2006;106:1998-2004. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16572401. 
585. Gan GN, Weickhardt AJ, Scheier B, et al. Stereotactic radiation 
therapy can safely and durably control sites of extra-central nervous 592. Wolfson AH, Bae K, Komaki R, et al. Primary analysis of a phase II 
system oligoprogressive disease in anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive randomized trial Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) 0212: impact 
lung cancer patients receiving crizotinib. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys of different total doses and schedules of prophylactic cranial irradiation on 
2014;88:892-898. Available at: chronic neurotoxicity and quality of life for patients with limited-disease 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24462383. small-cell lung cancer. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2011;81:77-84. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20800380. 
586. Iyengar P, Kavanagh BD, Wardak Z, et al. Phase II trial of 
stereotactic body radiation therapy combined with erlotinib for patients with 593. Sun A, Bae K, Gore EM, et al. Phase III trial of prophylactic cranial 
limited but progressive metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol irradiation compared with observation in patients with locally advanced 
2014;32:3824-3830. Available at: non-small-cell lung cancer: neurocognitive and quality-of-life analysis. J 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25349291. Clin Oncol 2011;29:279-286. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21135267. 
587. Takeda M, Okamoto I, Nakagawa K. Clinical impact of continued 
crizotinib administration after isolated central nervous system progression 594. Tallet AV, Azria D, Barlesi F, et al. Neurocognitive function 
in patients with lung cancer positive for ALK rearrangement. J Thorac impairment after whole brain radiotherapy for brain metastases: actual 
Oncol 2013;8:654-657. Available at: assessment. Radiat Oncol 2012;7:77. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23584297. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22640600. 
588. Bogart JA, Hodgson L, Seagren SL, et al. Phase I study of 595. Li J, Bentzen SM, Renschler M, Mehta MP. Regression after 
accelerated conformal radiotherapy for stage I non-small-cell lung cancer whole-brain radiation therapy for brain metastases correlates with survival 
in patients with pulmonary dysfunction: CALGB 39904. J Clin Oncol and improved neurocognitive function. J Clin Oncol 2007;25:1260-1266. 
2010;28:202-206. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17401015. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19933904. 
596. Aoyama H, Tago M, Kato N, et al. Neurocognitive function of patients 
589. Cheung P, Faria S, Ahmed S, et al. Phase II study of accelerated with brain metastasis who received either whole brain radiotherapy plus 
hypofractionated three-dimensional conformal radiotherapy for stage T1-3 stereotactic radiosurgery or radiosurgery alone. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-129 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Phys 2007;68:1388-1395. Available at: patients with non-small cell lung cancer with brain metastases unsuitable 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17674975. for resection or stereotactic radiotherapy (QUARTZ): results from a phase 
3, non-inferiority, randomised trial. Lancet 2016;388:2004-2014. Available 
597. Chang EL, Wefel JS, Hess KR, et al. Neurocognition in patients with at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27604504. 
brain metastases treated with radiosurgery or radiosurgery plus 
whole-brain irradiation: a randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 604. Chen L, Douglass J, Kleinberg L, et al. Concurrent Immune 
2009;10:1037-1044. Available at: Checkpoint Inhibitors and Stereotactic Radiosurgery for Brain Metastases 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19801201. in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Melanoma, and Renal Cell Carcinoma. Int 
J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2018;100:916-925. Available at: 
598. Yamamoto M, Serizawa T, Shuto T, et al. Stereotactic radiosurgery https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29485071. 
for patients with multiple brain metastases (JLGK0901): a 
multi-institutional prospective observational study. Lancet Oncol 605. Koenig JL, Shi S, Sborov K, et al. Adverse Radiation Effect and 
2014;15:387-395. Available at: Disease Control in Patients Undergoing Stereotactic Radiosurgery and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24621620. Immune Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy for Brain Metastases. World 
Neurosurg 2019;126:e1399-e1411. Available at: 
599. Brown PD, Jaeckle K, Ballman KV, et al. Effect of Radiosurgery https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30902777. 
Alone vs Radiosurgery With Whole Brain Radiation Therapy on Cognitive 
Function in Patients With 1 to 3 Brain Metastases: A Randomized Clinical 606. Kalkanis SN, Kondziolka D, Gaspar LE, et al. The role of surgical 
Trial. JAMA 2016;316:401-409. Available at: resection in the management of newly diagnosed brain metastases: a 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27458945. systematic review and evidence-based clinical practice guideline. J 
Neurooncol 2010;96:33-43. Available at: 
600. Suh JH, Videtic GM, Aref AM, et al. ACR Appropriateness Criteria: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19960230. 
single brain metastasis. Curr Probl Cancer 2010;34:162-174. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20541055. 607. Gaspar LE, Mehta MP, Patchell RA, et al. The role of whole brain 
radiation therapy in the management of newly diagnosed brain 
601. Marsh JC, Gielda BT, Herskovic AM, Abrams RA. Cognitive Sparing metastases: a systematic review and evidence-based clinical practice 
during the Administration of Whole Brain Radiotherapy and Prophylactic guideline. J Neurooncol 2010;96:17-32. Available at: 
Cranial Irradiation: Current Concepts and Approaches. J Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19960231. 
2010;2010:198208. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20671962. 608. Mintz A, Perry J, Spithoff K, et al. Management of single brain 
metastasis: a practice guideline. Curr Oncol 2007;14:131-143. Available 
602. Gondi V, Pugh SL, Tome WA, et al. Preservation of memory with at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17710205. 
conformal avoidance of the hippocampal neural stem-cell compartment 
during whole-brain radiotherapy for brain metastases (RTOG 0933): a 609. Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Walsh JW, et al. A randomized trial of surgery 
phase II multi-institutional trial. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:3810-3816. Available in the treatment of single metastases to the brain. N Engl J Med 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25349290. 1990;322:494-500. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2405271. 
603. Mulvenna P, Nankivell M, Barton R, et al. Dexamethasone and 
supportive care with or without whole brain radiotherapy in treating 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-130 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
610. Linskey ME, Andrews DW, Asher AL, et al. The role of stereotactic 617. Magnuson WJ, Lester-Coll NH, Wu AJ, et al. Management of Brain 
radiosurgery in the management of patients with newly diagnosed brain Metastases in Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor-Naive Epidermal Growth Factor 
metastases: a systematic review and evidence-based clinical practice Receptor-Mutant Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Retrospective 
guideline. J Neurooncol 2010;96:45-68. Available at: Multi-Institutional Analysis. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:1070-1077. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19960227. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28113019. 
611. Aoyama H, Shirato H, Tago M, et al. Stereotactic radiosurgery plus 618. Reck M, Popat S, Reinmuth N, et al. Metastatic non-small-cell lung 
whole-brain radiation therapy vs stereotactic radiosurgery alone for cancer (NSCLC): ESMO Clinical Practice Guidelines for diagnosis, 
treatment of brain metastases: a randomized controlled trial. JAMA treatment and follow-up. Ann Oncol 2014;25 Suppl 3:iii27-39. Available at: 
2006;295:2483-2491. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25115305. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16757720. 
619. Tsao MN, Lloyd N, Wong RK, et al. Whole brain radiotherapy for the 
612. Abe E, Aoyama H. The role of whole brain radiation therapy for the treatment of newly diagnosed multiple brain metastases. Cochrane 
management of brain metastases in the era of stereotactic radiosurgery. Database Syst Rev 2012;4:CD003869. Available at: 
Curr Oncol Rep 2012;14:79-84. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22513917. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22006098. 
620. Chang WS, Kim HY, Chang JW, et al. Analysis of radiosurgical 
613. Mehta MP, Paleologos NA, Mikkelsen T, et al. The role of results in patients with brain metastases according to the number of brain 
chemotherapy in the management of newly diagnosed brain metastases: a lesions: is stereotactic radiosurgery effective for multiple brain 
systematic review and evidence-based clinical practice guideline. J metastases? J Neurosurg 2010;113 Suppl:73-78. Available at: 
Neurooncol 2010;96:71-83. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21121789. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19960229. 
621. Bradbury P, Sivajohanathan D, Chan A, et al. Postoperative Adjuvant 
614. Ellis TL, Neal MT, Chan MD. The role of surgery, radiosurgery and Systemic Therapy in Completely Resected Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: 
whole brain radiation therapy in the management of patients with A Systematic Review. Clin Lung Cancer 2017;18:259-273 e258. Available 
metastatic brain tumors. Int J Surg Oncol 2012;2012:952345. Available at: at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28162945. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22312545. 
622. Arriagada R, Bergman B, Dunant A, et al. Cisplatin-based adjuvant 
615. Patchell RA, Tibbs PA, Regine WF, et al. Postoperative radiotherapy chemotherapy in patients with completely resected non-small-cell lung 
in the treatment of single metastases to the brain: a randomized trial. cancer. N Engl J Med 2004;350:351-360. Available at: 
JAMA 1998;280:1485-1489. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14736927. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9809728. 
623. Winton T, Livingston R, Johnson D, et al. Vinorelbine plus cisplatin 
616. Ammirati M, Cobbs CS, Linskey ME, et al. The role of retreatment in vs. observation in resected non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
the management of recurrent/progressive brain metastases: a systematic 2005;352:2589-2597. Available at: 
review and evidence-based clinical practice guideline. J Neurooncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15972865. 
2010;96:85-96. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19957016. 624. Douillard JY, Rosell R, De Lena M, et al. Adjuvant vinorelbine plus 
cisplatin versus observation in patients with completely resected stage 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-131 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
IB-IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer (Adjuvant Navelbine International Trialist 631. Pisters KM, Vallieres E, Crowley JJ, et al. Surgery with or without 
Association [ANITA]): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol preoperative paclitaxel and carboplatin in early-stage non-small-cell lung 
2006;7:719-727. Available at: cancer: Southwest Oncology Group Trial S9900, an intergroup, 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16945766. randomized, phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:1843-1849. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20231678. 
625. Song WA, Zhou NK, Wang W, et al. Survival benefit of neoadjuvant 
chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: an updated meta-analysis of 632. Westeel V, Quoix E, Puyraveau M, et al. A randomised trial 
13 randomized control trials. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:510-516. Available at: comparing preoperative to perioperative chemotherapy in early-stage 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20107424. non-small-cell lung cancer (IFCT 0002 trial). Eur J Cancer 
2013;49:2654-2664. Available at: 
626. Scagliotti GV, Pastorino U, Vansteenkiste JF, et al. Randomized https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23735703. 
phase III study of surgery alone or surgery plus preoperative cisplatin and 
gemcitabine in stages IB to IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 633. Group NM-aC. Preoperative chemotherapy for non-small-cell lung 
2012;30:172-178. Available at: cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis of individual participant 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22124104. data. Lancet 2014;383:1561-1571. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24576776. 
627. Depierre A, Milleron B, Moro-Sibilot D, et al. Preoperative 
chemotherapy followed by surgery compared with primary surgery in 634. Curran WJ, Jr., Paulus R, Langer CJ, et al. Sequential vs. concurrent 
resectable stage I (except T1N0), II, and IIIa non-small-cell lung cancer. J chemoradiation for stage III non-small cell lung cancer: randomized phase 
Clin Oncol 2002;20:247-253. Available at: III trial RTOG 9410. J Natl Cancer Inst 2011;103:1452-1460. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11773176. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21903745. 
628. Rosell R, Gomez-Codina J, Camps C, et al. Preresectional 635. Auperin A, Le Pechoux C, Rolland E, et al. Meta-analysis of 
chemotherapy in stage IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer: a 7-year concomitant versus sequential radiochemotherapy in locally advanced 
assessment of a randomized controlled trial. Lung Cancer 1999;26:7-14. non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:2181-2190. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10574676. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20351327. 
629. Roth JA, Fossella F, Komaki R, et al. A randomized trial comparing 636. Socinski MA, Rosenman JG, Halle J, et al. Dose-escalating 
perioperative chemotherapy and surgery with surgery alone in resectable conformal thoracic radiation therapy with induction and concurrent 
stage IIIA non-small-cell lung cancer. J Natl Cancer Inst 1994;86:673-680. carboplatin/paclitaxel in unresectable stage IIIA/B nonsmall cell lung 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8158698. carcinoma: a modified phase I/II trial. Cancer 2001;92:1213-1223. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11571735. 
630. Felip E, Rosell R, Maestre JA, et al. Preoperative chemotherapy plus 
surgery versus surgery plus adjuvant chemotherapy versus surgery alone 637. Furuse K, Fukuoka M, Kawahara M, et al. Phase III study of 
in early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol concurrent versus sequential thoracic radiotherapy in combination with 
2010;28:3138-3145. Available at: mitomycin, vindesine, and cisplatin in unresectable stage III non-small-cell 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20516435. lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:2692-2699. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561343. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-132 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
638. Rugo HS, Klein P, Melin SA, et al. Association Between Use of a 645. Azzoli CG, Baker S, Jr., Temin S, et al. American Society of Clinical 
Scalp Cooling Device and Alopecia After Chemotherapy for Breast Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline update on chemotherapy for stage IV 
Cancer. JAMA 2017;317:606-614. Available at: non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:6251-6266. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28196257. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19917871. 
639. Rugo HS, Melin SA, Voigt J. Scalp cooling with adjuvant/neoadjuvant 646. Group NM-AC. Chemotherapy in addition to supportive care 
chemotherapy for breast cancer and the risk of scalp metastases: improves survival in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a systematic 
systematic review and meta-analysis. Breast Cancer Res Treat review and meta-analysis of individual patient data from 16 randomized 
2017;163:199-205. Available at: controlled trials. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:4617-4625. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28275922. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18678835. 
640. Nangia J, Wang T, Osborne C, et al. Effect of a Scalp Cooling Device 647. Souquet PJ, Chauvin F, Boissel JP, et al. Polychemotherapy in 
on Alopecia in Women Undergoing Chemotherapy for Breast Cancer: The advanced non small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis. Lancet 
SCALP Randomized Clinical Trial. JAMA 2017;317:596-605. Available at: 1993;342:19-21. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28196254. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8100290. 
641. Smetanay K, Junio P, Feisst M, et al. COOLHAIR: a prospective 648. Chemotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis using 
randomized trial to investigate the efficacy and tolerability of scalp cooling updated data on individual patients from 52 randomised clinical trials. 
in patients undergoing (neo)adjuvant chemotherapy for early breast Non-small Cell Lung Cancer Collaborative Group. BMJ 1995;311:899-909. 
cancer. Breast Cancer Res Treat 2019;173:135-143. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7580546. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30255454. 
649. Bakitas MA, El-Jawahri A, Farquhar M, et al. The TEAM Approach to 
642. Lemieux J, Provencher L, Perron L, et al. No effect of scalp cooling Improving Oncology Outcomes by Incorporating Palliative Care in 
on survival among women with breast cancer. Breast Cancer Res Treat Practice. J Oncol Pract 2017;13:557-566. Available at: 
2015;149:263-268. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28898605. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25511368. 
650. Temel JS, Greer JA, Muzikansky A, et al. Early palliative care for 
643. Socinski MA, Evans T, Gettinger S, et al. Treatment of stage IV patients with metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
non-small cell lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 2010;363:733-742. Available at: 
3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20818875. 
practice guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e341S-e368S. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649446. 651. Yates P, Schofield P, Zhao I, Currow D. Supportive and palliative 
care for lung cancer patients. J Thorac Dis 2013;5 Suppl 5:S623-628. 
644. Azzoli CG, Temin S, Aliff T, et al. 2011 Focused Update of 2009 Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24163753. 
American Society of Clinical Oncology Clinical Practice Guideline Update 
on Chemotherapy for Stage IV Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 652. Ford DW, Koch KA, Ray DE, Selecky PA. Palliative and end-of-life 
2011;29:3825-3831. Available at: care in lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21900105. American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical practice 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-133 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e498S-e512S. Available at: 660. Douillard JY, Tribodet H, Aubert D, et al. Adjuvant cisplatin and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649453. vinorelbine for completely resected non-small cell lung cancer: subgroup 
analysis of the Lung Adjuvant Cisplatin Evaluation. J Thorac Oncol 
653. Aizer AA, Chen MH, McCarthy EP, et al. Marital status and survival in 2010;5:220-228. Available at: 
patients with cancer. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3869-3876. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20027124. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24062405. 
661. Kreuter M, Vansteenkiste J, Fischer JR, et al. Randomized phase 2 
654. Basch E, Barbera L, Kerrigan CL, Velikova G. Implementation of trial on refinement of early-stage NSCLC adjuvant chemotherapy with 
Patient-Reported Outcomes in Routine Medical Care. Am Soc Clin Oncol cisplatin and pemetrexed versus cisplatin and vinorelbine: the TREAT 
Educ Book 2018;38:122-134. Available at: study. Ann Oncol 2013;24:986-992. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30231381. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23161898. 
655. Stover AM, Tompkins Stricker C, Hammelef K, et al. Using 662. Petrelli F, Barni S. Non-cancer-related mortality after cisplatin-based 
Stakeholder Engagement to Overcome Barriers to Implementing adjuvant chemotherapy for non-small cell lung cancer: a study-level 
Patient-reported Outcomes (PROs) in Cancer Care Delivery: Approaches meta-analysis of 16 randomized trials. Med Oncol 2013;30:641. Available 
From 3 Prospective Studies. Med Care 2019;57 Suppl 5 Suppl 1:S92-S99. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23813019. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30985602. 
663. Pignon JP, Tribodet H, Scagliotti GV, et al. Lung adjuvant cisplatin 
656. Basch EM, Deal AM, Dueck AC, et al. Overall survival results of a evaluation: a pooled analysis by the LACE Collaborative Group. J Clin 
randomized trial assessing patient-reported outcomes for symptom Oncol 2008;26:3552-3559. Available at: 
monitoring during routine cancer treatment [abstract]. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18506026. 
2017;35:Abstract LBA2. Available at: 
https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/record/147027/abstract. 664. Wisnivesky JP, Smith CB, Packer S, et al. Survival and risk of 
adverse events in older patients receiving postoperative adjuvant 
657. Magilligan DJ, Jr., Duvernoy C, Malik G, et al. Surgical approach to chemotherapy for resected stages II-IIIA lung cancer: observational cohort 
lung cancer with solitary cerebral metastasis: twenty-five years' study. BMJ 2011;343:d4013. Available at: 
experience. Ann Thorac Surg 1986;42:360-364. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21757436. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3767508. 
665. Strauss GM, Herndon J, Maddaus MA, et al. Randomized clinical trial 
658. Arriagada R, Dunant A, Pignon JP, et al. Long-term results of the of adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel and carboplatin following 
international adjuvant lung cancer trial evaluating adjuvant Cisplatin-based resection in stage IB non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): Report of 
chemotherapy in resected lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:35-42. Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) Protocol 9633 [abstract]. J Clin 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19933916. Oncol 2004;22 (Suppl 14):Abstract 7019. Available at: 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/22/14_suppl/7019. 
659. Butts CA, Ding K, Seymour L, et al. Randomized phase III trial of 
vinorelbine plus cisplatin compared with observation in completely 666. Strauss GM, Herndon JE, II, Maddaus MA, et al. Adjuvant 
resected stage IB and II non-small-cell lung cancer: updated survival chemotherapy in stage IB non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): Update of 
analysis of JBR-10. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:29-34. Available at: Cancer and Leukemia Group B (CALGB) protocol 9633 [abstract]. J Clin 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19933915. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-134 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Oncol 2006;24 (Suppl 18):Abstract 7007. Available at: 2012;30:3516-3524. Available at: 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/24/18_suppl/7007. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22949150. 
667. Strauss GM, Herndon JE, 2nd, Maddaus MA, et al. Adjuvant 673. Fossella F, Pereira JR, von Pawel J, et al. Randomized, 
paclitaxel plus carboplatin compared with observation in stage IB multinational, phase III study of docetaxel plus platinum combinations 
non-small-cell lung cancer: CALGB 9633 with the Cancer and Leukemia versus vinorelbine plus cisplatin for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: 
Group B, Radiation Therapy Oncology Group, and North Central Cancer the TAX 326 study group. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:3016-3024. Available at: 
Treatment Group Study Groups. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:5043-5051. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12837811. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18809614. 
674. Usami N, Yokoi K, Hasegawa Y, et al. Phase II study of carboplatin 
668. Ohe Y, Ohashi Y, Kubota K, et al. Randomized phase III study of and gemcitabine as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with completely 
cisplatin plus irinotecan versus carboplatin plus paclitaxel, cisplatin plus resected non-small cell lung cancer: a report from the Central Japan Lung 
gemcitabine, and cisplatin plus vinorelbine for advanced non-small-cell Study Group, CJLSG 0503 trial. Int J Clin Oncol 2010;15:583-587. 
lung cancer: Four-Arm Cooperative Study in Japan. Ann Oncol Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20714770. 
2007;18:317-323. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17079694. 675. Zhang L, Ou W, Liu Q, et al. Pemetrexed plus carboplatin as adjuvant 
chemotherapy in patients with curative resected non-squamous non-small 
669. Katz A, Saad ED. CALGB 9633: an underpowered trial with a cell lung cancer. Thorac Cancer 2014;5:50-56. Available at: 
methodologically questionable conclusion. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26766972. 
2009;27:2300-2301; author reply 2301-2302. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19332712. 676. Schmid-Bindert G, Engel-Riedel W, Reck M, et al. A randomized 
Phase 2 study of pemetrexed in combination with cisplatin or carboplatin 
670. Kreuter M, Vansteenkiste J, Fischer JR, et al. Three-Year Follow-Up as adjuvant chemotherapy in patients with completely resected stage IB or 
of a Randomized Phase II Trial on Refinement of Early-Stage NSCLC II Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. Lung Cancer 2015;90:397-404. Available 
Adjuvant Chemotherapy with Cisplatin and Pemetrexed versus Cisplatin at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26791798. 
and Vinorelbine (the TREAT Study). J Thorac Oncol 2016;11:85-93. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26762743. 677. Kim YH, Hirabayashi M, Togashi Y, et al. Phase II study of 
carboplatin and pemetrexed in advanced non-squamous, non-small-cell 
671. Kris MG, Gaspar LE, Chaft JE, et al. Adjuvant Systemic Therapy and lung cancer: Kyoto Thoracic Oncology Research Group Trial 0902. Cancer 
Adjuvant Radiation Therapy for Stage I to IIIA Completely Resected Chemother Pharmacol 2012;70:271-276. Available at: 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancers: American Society of Clinical https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22752216. 
Oncology/Cancer Care Ontario Clinical Practice Guideline Update. J Clin 
Oncol 2017;35:2960-2974. Available at: 678. Dillman RO, Seagren SL, Propert KJ, et al. A randomized trial of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28437162. induction chemotherapy plus high-dose radiation versus radiation alone in 
stage III non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 1990;323:940-945. 
672. Perol M, Chouaid C, Perol D, et al. Randomized, phase III study of Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2169587. 
gemcitabine or erlotinib maintenance therapy versus observation, with 
predefined second-line treatment, after cisplatin-gemcitabine induction 679. Le Chevalier T, Arriagada R, Quoix E, et al. Radiotherapy alone 
chemotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol versus combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy in nonresectable 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-135 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
non-small-cell lung cancer: first analysis of a randomized trial in 353 686. Ramnath N, Dilling TJ, Harris LJ, et al. Treatment of stage III 
patients. J Natl Cancer Inst 1991;83:417-423. Available at: non-small cell lung cancer: Diagnosis and management of lung cancer, 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1847977. 3rd ed: American College of Chest Physicians evidence-based clinical 
practice guidelines. Chest 2013;143:e314S-e340S. Available at: 
680. Schaake-Koning C, van den Bogaert W, Dalesio O, et al. Effects of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649445. 
concomitant cisplatin and radiotherapy on inoperable non-small-cell lung 
cancer. N Engl J Med 1992;326:524-530. Available at: 687. Atagi S, Kawahara M, Yokoyama A, et al. Thoracic radiotherapy with 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1310160. or without daily low-dose carboplatin in elderly patients with non-small-cell 
lung cancer: a randomised, controlled, phase 3 trial by the Japan Clinical 
681. Dillman RO, Seagren SL, Herndon J, al. e. A randomized trial of Oncology Group (JCOG0301). Lancet Oncol 2012;13:671-678. Available 
induction chemotherapy plus high-dose radiation versus radiation alone in at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22622008. 
stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: Five-year follow-up of cancer and 
leukemia group B (CALGB) 8433 trial. J Clin Oncol (Meeting Abstracts) 688. Atagi S, Mizusawa J, Ishikura S, et al. Chemoradiotherapy in Elderly 
1993;12:329. Available at:  Patients With Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: Long-Term Follow-Up of a 
Randomized Trial (JCOG0301). Clin Lung Cancer 2018;19:e619-e627. 
682. Dillman RO, Herndon J, Seagren SL, et al. Improved survival in stage Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29887243. 
III non-small-cell lung cancer: seven-year follow-up of cancer and 
leukemia group B (CALGB) 8433 trial. J Natl Cancer Inst 689. Hancock JG, Rosen JE, Antonicelli A, et al. Impact of adjuvant 
1996;88:1210-1215. Available at: treatment for microscopic residual disease after non-small cell lung cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8780630. surgery. Ann Thorac Surg 2015;99:406-413. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25528723. 
683. Sause W, Kolesar P, Taylor SI, et al. Final results of phase III trial in 
regionally advanced unresectable non-small cell lung cancer: Radiation 690. Rosell R, Gatzemeier U, Betticher DC, et al. Phase III randomised 
Therapy Oncology Group, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group, and trial comparing paclitaxel/carboplatin with paclitaxel/cisplatin in patients 
Southwest Oncology Group. Chest 2000;117:358-364. Available at: with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a cooperative multinational trial. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10669675. Ann Oncol 2002;13:1539-1549. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12377641. 
684. O'Rourke N, Roque IFM, Farre Bernado N, Macbeth F. Concurrent 
chemoradiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer. Cochrane Database 691. Senan S, Brade A, Wang LH, et al. PROCLAIM: Randomized Phase 
Syst Rev 2010:CD002140. Available at: III Trial of Pemetrexed-Cisplatin or Etoposide-Cisplatin Plus Thoracic 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20556756. Radiation Therapy Followed by Consolidation Chemotherapy in Locally 
Advanced Nonsquamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 
685. Baumann M, Herrmann T, Koch R, et al. Final results of the 2016;34:953-962. Available at: 
randomized phase III CHARTWEL-trial (ARO 97-1) comparing https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26811519. 
hyperfractionated-accelerated versus conventionally fractionated 
radiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Radiother Oncol 692. Ezer N, Smith CB, Galsky MD, et al. Cisplatin vs. carboplatin-based 
2011;100:76-85. Available at: chemoradiotherapy in patients >65 years of age with stage III non-small 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21757247. cell lung cancer. Radiother Oncol 2014;112:272-278. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25150635. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-136 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
693. Albain KS, Crowley JJ, Turrisi AT, 3rd, et al. Concurrent cisplatin, 699. Antonia SJ, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Overall Survival with 
etoposide, and chest radiotherapy in pathologic stage IIIB non-small-cell Durvalumab after Chemoradiotherapy in Stage III NSCLC. N Engl J Med 
lung cancer: a Southwest Oncology Group phase II study, SWOG 9019. J 2018;379:2342-2350. Available at: 
Clin Oncol 2002;20:3454-3460. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30280658. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12177106. 
700. Gray JE, Villegas A, Daniel D, et al. Three-Year Overall Survival with 
694. Belani CP, Choy H, Bonomi P, et al. Combined chemoradiotherapy Durvalumab after Chemoradiotherapy in Stage III NSCLC-Update from 
regimens of paclitaxel and carboplatin for locally advanced non-small-cell PACIFIC. J Thorac Oncol 2020;15:288-293. Available at: 
lung cancer: a randomized phase II locally advanced multi-modality https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31622733. 
protocol. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:5883-5891. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16087941. 701. Hui R, Ozguroglu M, Villegas A, et al. Patient-reported outcomes with 
durvalumab after chemoradiotherapy in stage III, unresectable 
695. Santana-Davila R, Devisetty K, Szabo A, et al. Cisplatin and non-small-cell lung cancer (PACIFIC): a randomised, controlled, phase 3 
etoposide versus carboplatin and paclitaxel with concurrent radiotherapy study. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:1670-1680. Available at: 
for stage III non-small-cell lung cancer: an analysis of Veterans Health https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31601496. 
Administration data. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:567-574. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25422491. 702. Smit EF, van Meerbeeck JP, Lianes P, et al. Three-arm randomized 
study of two cisplatin-based regimens and paclitaxel plus gemcitabine in 
696. Choy H, Gerber DE, Bradley JD, et al. Concurrent pemetrexed and advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase III trial of the European 
radiation therapy in the treatment of patients with inoperable stage III Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer Lung Cancer 
non-small cell lung cancer: a systematic review of completed and ongoing Group--EORTC 08975. J Clin Oncol 2003;21:3909-3917. Available at: 
studies. Lung Cancer 2015;87:232-240. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14581415. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25650301. 
703. Zatloukal P, Petruzelka L, Zemanova M, et al. Concurrent versus 
697. Govindan R, Bogart J, Stinchcombe T, et al. Randomized phase II sequential chemoradiotherapy with cisplatin and vinorelbine in locally 
study of pemetrexed, carboplatin, and thoracic radiation with or without advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a randomized study. Lung Cancer 
cetuximab in patients with locally advanced unresectable non-small-cell 2004;46:87-98. Available at: 
lung cancer: Cancer and Leukemia Group B trial 30407. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15364136. 
2011;29:3120-3125. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21747084. 704. Scagliotti GV, Parikh P, von Pawel J, et al. Phase III study comparing 
cisplatin plus gemcitabine with cisplatin plus pemetrexed in 
698. Vokes EE, Senan S, Treat JA, Iscoe NA. PROCLAIM: A phase III chemotherapy-naive patients with advanced-stage non-small-cell lung 
study of pemetrexed, cisplatin, and radiation therapy followed by cancer. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:3543-3551. Available at: 
consolidation pemetrexed versus etoposide, cisplatin, and radiation https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18506025. 
therapy followed by consolidation cytotoxic chemotherapy of choice in 
locally advanced stage III non-small-cell lung cancer of other than 705. Kelly K, Crowley J, Bunn PA, Jr., et al. Randomized phase III trial of 
predominantly squamous cell histology. Clin Lung Cancer paclitaxel plus carboplatin versus vinorelbine plus cisplatin in the treatment 
2009;10:193-198. Available at: of patients with advanced non--small-cell lung cancer: a Southwest 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19443340. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-137 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
Oncology Group trial. J Clin Oncol 2001;19:3210-3218. Available at: Thoracic Oncology Group (BTOG1). Ann Oncol 2006;17:1111-1119. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11432888. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16603599. 
706. Schiller JH, Harrington D, Belani CP, et al. Comparison of four 713. Gronberg BH, Bremnes RM, Flotten O, et al. Phase III study by the 
chemotherapy regimens for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Norwegian lung cancer study group: pemetrexed plus carboplatin 
Med 2002;346:92-98. Available at: compared with gemcitabine plus carboplatin as first-line chemotherapy in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11784875. advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:3217-3224. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19433683. 
707. Santana-Davila R, Szabo A, Arce-Lara C, et al. Cisplatin versus 
carboplatin-based regimens for the treatment of patients with metastatic 714. D'Addario G, Pintilie M, Leighl NB, et al. Platinum-based versus 
lung cancer. An analysis of Veterans Health Administration data. J Thorac non-platinum-based chemotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung 
Oncol 2014;9:702-709. Available at: cancer: a meta-analysis of the published literature. J Clin Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24662458. 2005;23:2926-2936. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15728229. 
708. Grossi F, Kubota K, Cappuzzo F, et al. Future scenarios for the 
treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer: focus on 715. Greco FA, Spigel DR, Kuzur ME, et al. 
taxane-containing regimens. Oncologist 2010;15:1102-1112. Available at: Paclitaxel/Carboplatin/gemcitabine versus gemcitabine/vinorelbine in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20930102. advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase II/III study of the Minnie 
Pearl Cancer Research Network. Clin Lung Cancer 2007;8:483-487. 
709. Leighl NB. Treatment paradigms for patients with metastatic Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17922972. 
non-small-cell lung cancer: first-, second-, and third-line. Curr Oncol 
2012;19:S52-58. Available at: 716. Herbst RS, Khuri FR, Lu C, et al. The novel and effective 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22787411. nonplatinum, nontaxane combination of gemcitabine and vinorelbine in 
advanced nonsmall cell lung carcinoma: potential for decreased toxicity 
710. de Marinis F, Rossi A, Di Maio M, et al. Treatment of advanced and combination with biological therapy. Cancer 2002;95:340-353. 
non-small-cell lung cancer: Italian Association of Thoracic Oncology Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12124835. 
(AIOT) clinical practice guidelines. Lung Cancer 2011;73:1-10. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21440325. 717. Pujol JL, Breton JL, Gervais R, et al. Gemcitabine-docetaxel versus 
cisplatin-vinorelbine in advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer: 
711. Danson S, Middleton MR, O'Byrne KJ, et al. Phase III trial of a phase III study addressing the case for cisplatin. Ann Oncol 
gemcitabine and carboplatin versus mitomycin, ifosfamide, and cisplatin or 2005;16:602-610. Available at: 
mitomycin, vinblastine, and cisplatin in patients with advanced nonsmall https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15741225. 
cell lung carcinoma. Cancer 2003;98:542-553. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12879472. 718. Zornosa C, Vandergrift JL, Kalemkerian GP, et al. First-line systemic 
therapy practice patterns and concordance with NCCN guidelines for 
712. Booton R, Lorigan P, Anderson H, et al. A phase III trial of patients diagnosed with metastatic NSCLC treated at NCCN institutions. J 
docetaxel/carboplatin versus mitomycin C/ifosfamide/cisplatin (MIC) or Natl Compr Canc Netw 2012;10:847-856. Available at: 
mitomycin C/vinblastine/cisplatin (MVP) in patients with advanced https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22773800. 
non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised multicentre trial of the British 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-138 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
719. Pennell NA. Selection of chemotherapy for patients with advanced carboplatin and bevacizumab followed by maintenance bevacizumab in 
non-small cell lung cancer. Cleve Clin J Med 2012;79 Electronic Suppl patients with stage IIIB or IV nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer. J 
1:eS46-50. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22614966. Clin Oncol 2013;31:4349-4357. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24145346. 
720. Sandler A, Gray R, Perry MC, et al. Paclitaxel-carboplatin alone or 
with bevacizumab for non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 727. Zhu J, Sharma DB, Gray SW, et al. Carboplatin and paclitaxel with vs 
2006;355:2542-2550. Available at: without bevacizumab in older patients with advanced non-small cell lung 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17167137. cancer. JAMA 2012;307:1593-1601. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22511687. 
721. Socinski MA, Schell MJ, Peterman A, et al. Phase III trial comparing 
a defined duration of therapy versus continuous therapy followed by 728. Langer C, Ravelo A, Hazard SJ, et al. Comparison of survival and 
second-line therapy in advanced-stage IIIB/IV non-small-cell lung cancer. hospitalization rates between Medicare patients with advanced NSCLC 
J Clin Oncol 2002;20:1335-1343. Available at: treated with bevacizumab-carboplatin-paclitaxel and carboplatin-paclitaxel: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11870177. a retrospective cohort study. Lung Cancer 2014;86:350-357. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25439437. 
722. Fidias P, Novello S. Strategies for prolonged therapy in patients with 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2010;28:5116-5123. 729. Langer CJ, Socinski MA, Patel JD, et al. Isolating the Role of 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21041704. Bevacizumab in Elderly Patients With Previously Untreated Nonsquamous 
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: Secondary Analyses of the ECOG 4599 and 
723. Scagliotti GV, Park K, Patil S, et al. Survival without toxicity for PointBreak Trials. Am J Clin Oncol 2016;39:441-447. Available at: 
cisplatin plus pemetrexed versus cisplatin plus gemcitabine in chemonaive https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25628268. 
patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a risk-benefit analysis 
of a large phase III study. Eur J Cancer 2009;45:2298-2303. Available at: 730. Rizvi NA, Riely GJ, Azzoli CG, et al. Phase I/II trial of weekly 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19473833. intravenous 130-nm albumin-bound paclitaxel as initial chemotherapy in 
patients with stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 
724. Edelman MJ, Le Chevalier T, Soria JC. Maintenance therapy and 2008;26:639-643. Available at: 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a skeptic's view. J Thorac Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18235124. 
2012;7:1331-1336. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22895137. 731. Green MR, Manikhas GM, Orlov S, et al. Abraxane, a novel 
Cremophor-free, albumin-bound particle form of paclitaxel for the 
725. Hershman DL, Lacchetti C, Dworkin RH, et al. Prevention and treatment of advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Ann Oncol 
management of chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy in survivors 2006;17:1263-1268. Available at: 
of adult cancers: American Society of Clinical Oncology clinical practice https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16740598. 
guideline. J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1941-1967. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24733808. 732. Socinski MA, Bondarenko I, Karaseva NA, et al. Weekly 
nab-paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin versus solvent-based 
726. Patel JD, Socinski MA, Garon EB, et al. PointBreak: a randomized paclitaxel plus carboplatin as first-line therapy in patients with advanced 
phase III study of pemetrexed plus carboplatin and bevacizumab followed non-small-cell lung cancer: final results of a phase III trial. J Clin Oncol 
by maintenance pemetrexed and bevacizumab versus paclitaxel plus 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-139 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2012;30:2055-2062. Available at: open-label, randomised, controlled phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22547591. 2015;16:763-774. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26045340. 
733. Lilenbaum R, Zukin M, Pereira JR, et al. A randomized phase III trial 
of single-agent pemetrexed (P) versus carboplatin and pemetrexed (CP) in 739. Goldstein DA, Chen Q, Ayer T, et al. Necitumumab in Metastatic 
patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and Squamous Cell Lung Cancer: Establishing a Value-Based Cost. JAMA 
performance status (PS) of 2 [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2012;30(Suppl Oncol 2015;1:1293-1300. Available at: 
15):Abstract 7506. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26313558. 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/30/15_suppl/7506. 
740. Sandler AB, Johnson DH, Herbst RS. Anti-vascular endothelial 
734. Langer CJ, O'Byrne KJ, Socinski MA, et al. Phase III trial comparing growth factor monoclonals in non-small cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res 
paclitaxel poliglumex (CT-2103, PPX) in combination with carboplatin 2004;10:4258s-4262s. Available at: 
versus standard paclitaxel and carboplatin in the treatment of PS 2 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15217970. 
patients with chemotherapy-naive advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J 
Thorac Oncol 2008;3:623-630. Available at: 741. Giaccone G. Epidermal growth factor receptor inhibitors in the 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18520802. treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2005;23:3235-3242. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15886311. 
735. Lilenbaum R, Villaflor VM, Langer C, et al. Single-agent versus 
combination chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small cell lung 742. Lin JJ, Kennedy E, Sequist LV, et al. Clinical Activity of Alectinib in 
cancer and a performance status of 2: prognostic factors and treatment Advanced RET-Rearranged Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. J Thorac Oncol 
selection based on two large randomized clinical trials. J Thorac Oncol 2016;11:2027-2032. Available at: 
2009;4:869-874. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27544060. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19487960. 
743. Sabari JK, Santini FC, Schram AM, et al. The activity, safety, and 
736. Roth BJ, Krilov L, Adams S, et al. Clinical cancer advances 2012: evolving role of brigatinib in patients with ALK-rearranged non-small cell 
annual report on progress against cancer from the american society of lung cancers. Onco Targets Ther 2017;10:1983-1992. Available at: 
clinical oncology. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:131-161. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28435288. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23213095. 
744. Solomon BJ, Besse B, Bauer TM, et al. Lorlatinib in patients with 
737. Zukin M, Barrios CH, Pereira JR, et al. Randomized phase III trial of ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer: results from a global phase 2 
single-agent pemetrexed versus carboplatin and pemetrexed in patients study. Lancet Oncol 2018;19:1654-1667. Available at: 
with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer and Eastern Cooperative https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30413378. 
Oncology Group performance status of 2. J Clin Oncol 
2013;31:2849-2853. Available at: 745. Besse B, Solomon BJ, Felip E, et al. Lorlatinib in patients (Pts) with 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23775961. previously treated ALK+ advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
Updated efficacy and safety [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 
738. Thatcher N, Hirsch FR, Luft AV, et al. Necitumumab plus gemcitabine 2018;36(15_suppl):Abstract 9032. Available at: 
and cisplatin versus gemcitabine and cisplatin alone as first-line therapy in https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2018.36.15_suppl.9032. 
patients with stage IV squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (SQUIRE): an 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-140 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
746. Lee SH, Lee JK, Ahn MJ, et al. Vandetanib in pretreated patients with 753. Thatcher N, Goldschmidt JH, Thomas M, et al. Efficacy and Safety of 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer-harboring RET rearrangement: a the Biosimilar ABP 215 Compared with Bevacizumab in Patients with 
phase II clinical trial. Ann Oncol 2017;28:292-297. Available at: Advanced Nonsquamous Non-small Cell Lung Cancer (MAPLE): A 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27803005. Randomized, Double-blind, Phase III Study. Clin Cancer Res 
2019;25:2088-2095. Available at: 
747. Riely GJ, Kris MG, Zhao B, et al. Prospective assessment of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30617139. 
discontinuation and reinitiation of erlotinib or gefitinib in patients with 
acquired resistance to erlotinib or gefitinib followed by the addition of 754. Reinmuth N, Bryl M, Bondarenko I, et al. PF-06439535 (a 
everolimus. Clin Cancer Res 2007;13:5150-5155. Available at: Bevacizumab Biosimilar) Compared with Reference Bevacizumab 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17785570. (Avastin((R))), Both Plus Paclitaxel and Carboplatin, as First-Line 
Treatment for Advanced Non-Squamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A 
748. Kuriyama Y, Kim YH, Nagai H, et al. Disease flare after Randomized, Double-Blind Study. BioDrugs 2019;33:555-570. Available 
discontinuation of crizotinib in anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive lung at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31338773. 
cancer. Case Rep Oncol 2013;6:430-433. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24019783. 755. Melosky B, Reardon DA, Nixon AB, et al. Bevacizumab biosimilars: 
scientific justification for extrapolation of indications. Future Oncol 
749. Chaft JE, Oxnard GR, Sima CS, et al. Disease flare after tyrosine 2018;14:2507-2520. Available at: 
kinase inhibitor discontinuation in patients with EGFR-mutant lung cancer https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29690784. 
and acquired resistance to erlotinib or gefitinib: implications for clinical trial 
design. Clin Cancer Res 2011;17:6298-6303. Available at: 756. Weise M, Kurki P, Wolff-Holz E, et al. Biosimilars: the science of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21856766. extrapolation. Blood 2014;124:3191-3196. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25298038. 
750. Pop O, Pirvu A, Toffart AC, Moro-Sibilot D. Disease flare after 
treatment discontinuation in a patient with EML4-ALK lung cancer and 757. Weise M, Bielsky MC, De Smet K, et al. Biosimilars: what clinicians 
acquired resistance to crizotinib. J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:e1-2. Available at: should know. Blood 2012;120:5111-5117. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22797152. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23093622. 
751. Gainor JF, Shaw AT, Sequist LV, et al. EGFR Mutations and ALK 758. Nakagawa K, Garon EB, Seto T, et al. Ramucirumab plus erlotinib in 
Rearrangements Are Associated with Low Response Rates to PD-1 patients with untreated, EGFR-mutated, advanced non-small-cell lung 
Pathway Blockade in Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: A Retrospective cancer (RELAY): a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 3 
Analysis. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:4585-4593. Available at: trial. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:1655-1669. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27225694. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31591063. 
752. Cohen MH, Gootenberg J, Keegan P, Pazdur R. FDA drug approval 759. Garon EB, Ciuleanu TE, Arrieta O, et al. Ramucirumab plus 
summary: bevacizumab (Avastin) plus Carboplatin and Paclitaxel as docetaxel versus placebo plus docetaxel for second-line treatment of 
first-line treatment of advanced/metastatic recurrent nonsquamous stage IV non-small-cell lung cancer after disease progression on 
non-small cell lung cancer. Oncologist 2007;12:713-718. Available at: platinum-based therapy (REVEL): a multicentre, double-blind, randomised 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17602060. phase 3 trial. Lancet 2014;384:665-673. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24933332. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-141 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
760. Larkins E, Scepura B, Blumenthal GM, et al. U.S. Food and Drug 767. Oxnard GR, Thress KS, Alden RS, et al. Association Between 
Administration Approval Summary: Ramucirumab for the Treatment of Plasma Genotyping and Outcomes of Treatment With Osimertinib 
Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Following Disease Progression (AZD9291) in Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 
On or After Platinum-Based Chemotherapy. Oncologist 2016;34:3375-3382. Available at: 
2015;20:1320-1325. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27354477. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26446239. 
768. Sacher AG, Paweletz C, Dahlberg SE, et al. Prospective Validation of 
761. Ramalingam SS, Yang JC, Lee CK, et al. Osimertinib As First-Line Rapid Plasma Genotyping for the Detection of EGFR and KRAS Mutations 
Treatment of EGFR Mutation-Positive Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung in Advanced Lung Cancer. JAMA Oncol 2016;2:1014-1022. Available at: 
Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:841-849. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27055085. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28841389. 
769. Hochmair MJ, Holzer S, Filipits M, et al. EGFR T790M resistance 
762. Ramalingam SS, Reungwetwattana T, Chewaskulyong B, et al. mutation in NSCLC: Real-life data of patients treated with osimertinib 
Osimertinib versus standard-of-care EGFR-TKI as first-line treatment in [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:Abstract e20572. Available at:  
patients with EGFRm advanced NSCLC: FLAURA [abstract] [abstract]. 
Presented at the ESMO Congress; Madrid. Abstract LBA2_PR. 770. Ricciuti B, Chiari R, Chiarini P, et al. Osimertinib (AZD9291) and CNS 
Response in Two Radiotherapy-Naive Patients with EGFR-Mutant and 
763. Schoenfeld AJ, Arbour KC, Rizvi H, et al. Severe immune-related T790M-Positive Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Clin Drug 
adverse events are common with sequential PD-(L)1 blockade and Investig 2016;36:683-686. Available at: 
osimertinib. Ann Oncol 2019;30:839-844. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27177916. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30847464. 
771. Reichegger H, Jochum W, Forbs D, et al. Rapid Intracranial 
764. Oshima Y, Tanimoto T, Yuji K, Tojo A. EGFR-TKI-Associated Response to Osimertinib in a Patient with Epidermal Growth Factor 
Interstitial Pneumonitis in Nivolumab-Treated Patients With Non-Small Cell Receptor T790M-Positive Adenocarcinoma of the Lung. Oncol Res Treat 
Lung Cancer. JAMA Oncol 2018;4:1112-1115. Available at: 2016;39:461-463. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29327061. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27486808. 
765. Ahn M-J, Yang J, Yu H, et al. 136O: Osimertinib combined with 772. Ballard P, Yates JW, Yang Z, et al. Preclinical Comparison of 
durvalumab in EGFR-mutant non-small cell lung cancer: Results from the Osimertinib with Other EGFR-TKIs in EGFR-Mutant NSCLC Brain 
TATTON phase Ib trial [abstract]. J Thorac Oncol 2016 11:S115. Available Metastases Models, and Early Evidence of Clinical Brain Metastases 
at: https://www.jto.org/article/S1556-0864(16)30246-5/abstract. Activity. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:5130-5140. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27435396. 
766. Merker JD, Oxnard GR, Compton C, et al. Circulating Tumor DNA 
Analysis in Patients With Cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology 773. Yang JC-H, Cho BC, Kim D-W, et al. Osimertinib for patients (pts) 
and College of American Pathologists Joint Review. J Clin Oncol with leptomeningeal metastases (LM) from EGFR-mutant non-small cell 
2018;36:1631-1641. Available at: lung cancer (NSCLC): Updated results from the BLOOM study [abstract]. J 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29504847. Clin Oncol 2017;35(15):Abstract 2020. Available at: 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2017.35.15_suppl.2020. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-142 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
774. How J, Mann J, Laczniak AN, Baggstrom MQ. Pulsatile Erlotinib in CALGB 30406 trial. J Clin Oncol 2012;30:2063-2069. Available at: 
EGFR-Positive Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Patients With https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22547605. 
Leptomeningeal and Brain Metastases: Review of the Literature. Clin Lung 
Cancer 2017;18:354-363. Available at: 781. Masters GA, Temin S, Azzoli CG, et al. Systemic Therapy for Stage 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28245967. IV Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: American Society of Clinical Oncology 
Clinical Practice Guideline Update. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:3488-3515. 
775. Grommes C, Oxnard GR, Kris MG, et al. "Pulsatile" high-dose weekly Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26324367. 
erlotinib for CNS metastases from EGFR mutant non-small cell lung 
cancer. Neuro Oncol 2011;13:1364-1369. Available at: 782. Urata Y, Katakami N, Morita S, et al. Randomized Phase III Study 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21865399. Comparing Gefitinib With Erlotinib in Patients With Previously Treated 
Advanced Lung Adenocarcinoma: WJOG 5108L. J Clin Oncol 
776. Kawamura T, Hata A, Takeshita J, et al. High-dose erlotinib for 2016;34:3248-3257. Available at: 
refractory leptomeningeal metastases after failure of standard-dose https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27022112. 
EGFR-TKIs. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 2015;75:1261-1266. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25921002. 783. Jackman DM, Miller VA, Cioffredi LA, et al. Impact of epidermal 
growth factor receptor and KRAS mutations on clinical outcomes in 
777. Fukuoka M, Wu YL, Thongprasert S, et al. Biomarker analyses and previously untreated non-small cell lung cancer patients: results of an 
final overall survival results from a phase III, randomized, open-label, online tumor registry of clinical trials. Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:5267-5273. 
first-line study of gefitinib versus carboplatin/paclitaxel in clinically selected Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19671843. 
patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer in Asia (IPASS). J Clin 
Oncol 2011;29:2866-2874. Available at: 784. Gridelli C, Ciardiello F, Gallo C, et al. First-line erlotinib followed by 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21670455. second-line cisplatin-gemcitabine chemotherapy in advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer: the TORCH randomized trial. J Clin Oncol 
778. Khozin S, Blumenthal GM, Jiang X, et al. U.S. Food and Drug 2012;30:3002-3011. Available at: 
Administration approval summary: Erlotinib for the first-line treatment of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22778317. 
metastatic non-small cell lung cancer with epidermal growth factor 
receptor exon 19 deletions or exon 21 (L858R) substitution mutations. 785. Burotto M, Manasanch EE, Wilkerson J, Fojo T. Gefitinib and erlotinib 
Oncologist 2014;19:774-779. Available at: in metastatic non-small cell lung cancer: a meta-analysis of toxicity and 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24868098. efficacy of randomized clinical trials. Oncologist 2015;20:400-410. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25795635. 
779. Kazandjian D, Blumenthal GM, Yuan W, et al. FDA Approval of 
Gefitinib for the Treatment of Patients with Metastatic EGFR 786. Haspinger ER, Agustoni F, Torri V, et al. Is there evidence for 
Mutation-Positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Clin Cancer Res different effects among EGFR-TKIs? Systematic review and meta-analysis 
2016;22:1307-1312. Available at: of EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) versus chemotherapy as 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26980062. first-line treatment for patients harboring EGFR mutations. Crit Rev Oncol 
Hematol 2015;94:213-227. Available at: 
780. Janne PA, Wang X, Socinski MA, et al. Randomized phase II trial of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25523487. 
erlotinib alone or with carboplatin and paclitaxel in patients who were 
never or light former smokers with advanced lung adenocarcinoma: 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-143 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
787. Saito H, Fukuhara T, Furuya N, et al. Erlotinib plus bevacizumab agents. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book 2013:272-278. Available at: 
versus erlotinib alone in patients with EGFR-positive advanced https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23714521. 
non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (NEJ026): interim analysis of an 
open-label, randomised, multicentre, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 795. Soria JC, Felip E, Cobo M, et al. Afatinib versus erlotinib as 
2019;20:625-635. Available at: second-line treatment of patients with advanced squamous cell carcinoma 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30975627. of the lung (LUX-Lung 8): an open-label randomised controlled phase 3 
trial. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:897-907. Available at: 
788. Sequist LV, Joshi VA, Janne PA, et al. Response to treatment and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26156651. 
survival of patients with non-small cell lung cancer undergoing somatic 
EGFR mutation testing. Oncologist 2007;12:90-98. Available at: 796. Park K, Tan EH, O'Byrne K, et al. Afatinib versus gefitinib as first-line 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17285735. treatment of patients with EGFR mutation-positive non-small-cell lung 
cancer (LUX-Lung 7): a phase 2B, open-label, randomised controlled trial. 
789. Inoue A, Kobayashi K, Usui K, et al. First-line gefitinib for patients Lancet Oncol 2016;17:577-589. Available at: 
with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer harboring epidermal growth https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27083334. 
factor receptor mutations without indication for chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 
2009;27:1394-1400. Available at: 797. Paz-Ares L, Tan EH, O'Byrne K, et al. Afatinib versus gefitinib in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19224850. patients with EGFR mutation-positive advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer: overall survival data from the phase IIb LUX-Lung 7 trial. Ann 
790. Nelson V, Ziehr J, Agulnik M, Johnson M. Afatinib: emerging Oncol 2017;28:270-277. Available at: 
next-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitor for NSCLC. Onco Targets Ther https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28426106. 
2013;6:135-143. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23493883. 798. Mok TS, Cheng Y, Zhou X, et al. Improvement in Overall Survival in a 
Randomized Study That Compared Dacomitinib With Gefitinib in Patients 
791. De Greve J, Teugels E, Geers C, et al. Clinical activity of afatinib With Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer and EGFR-Activating 
(BIBW 2992) in patients with lung adenocarcinoma with mutations in the Mutations. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2244-2250. Available at: 
kinase domain of HER2/neu. Lung Cancer 2012;76:123-127. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29864379. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22325357. 
799. Wu YL, Cheng Y, Zhou X, et al. Dacomitinib versus gefitinib as 
792. FDA approves afatinib for advanced lung cancer. Oncology (Williston first-line treatment for patients with EGFR-mutation-positive non-small-cell 
Park) 2013;27:813-814. Available at: lung cancer (ARCHER 1050): a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24133833. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:1454-1466. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28958502. 
793. Dungo RT, Keating GM. Afatinib: first global approval. Drugs 
2013;73:1503-1515. Available at: 800. Hida T, Nokihara H, Kondo M, et al. Alectinib versus crizotinib in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23982599. patients with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer (J-ALEX): an 
open-label, randomised phase 3 trial. Lancet 2017;390:29-39. Available at: 
794. West H, Oxnard GR, Doebele RC. Acquired resistance to targeted https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28501140. 
therapies in advanced non-small cell lung cancer: new strategies and new 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-144 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
801. Larkins E, Blumenthal GM, Chen H, et al. FDA Approval: Alectinib for cancer. Drugs 2013;73:2031-2051. Available at: 
the Treatment of Metastatic, ALK-Positive Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24288180. 
Following Crizotinib. Clin Cancer Res 2016;22:5171-5176. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27413075. 809. Costa DB, Shaw AT, Ou SH, et al. Clinical Experience With Crizotinib 
in Patients With Advanced ALK-Rearranged Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer 
802. Shaw AT, Gandhi L, Gadgeel S, et al. Alectinib in ALK-positive, and Brain Metastases. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:1881-1888. Available at: 
crizotinib-resistant, non-small-cell lung cancer: a single-group, multicentre, https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25624436. 
phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:234-242. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26708155. 810. Camidge DR, Bang YJ, Kwak EL, et al. Activity and safety of 
crizotinib in patients with ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer: updated 
803. Kazandjian D, Blumenthal GM, Chen HY, et al. FDA approval results from a phase 1 study. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:1011-1019. Available 
summary: crizotinib for the treatment of metastatic non-small cell lung at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22954507. 
cancer with anaplastic lymphoma kinase rearrangements. Oncologist 
2014;19:e5-11. Available at: 811. Shaw AT, Yeap BY, Solomon BJ, et al. Impact of crizotinib on 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25170012. survival in patients with advanced, ALK-positive NSCLC compared with 
historical controls [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29(Suppl 15):Abstract 
804. Shaw AT, Kim DW, Nakagawa K, et al. Crizotinib versus 7507. Available at: 
chemotherapy in advanced ALK-positive lung cancer. N Engl J Med https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/7507. 
2013;368:2385-2394. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23724913. 812. Bang YJ. Treatment of ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer. Arch 
Pathol Lab Med 2012;136:1201-1204. Available at: 
805. Crino L, Kim D, Riely GJ, et al. Initial phase II results with crizotinib in https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23020724. 
advanced ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): PROFILE 
1005 [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2011;29 (Suppl 15):Abstract 7514. Available 813. Choi YL, Soda M, Yamashita Y, et al. EML4-ALK mutations in lung 
at: https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/7514. cancer that confer resistance to ALK inhibitors. N Engl J Med 
2010;363:1734-1739. Available at: 
806. Camidge DR, Bang Y, Kwak EL, et al. Progression-free survival https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20979473. 
(PFS) from a phase I study of crizotinib (PF-02341066) in patients with 
ALK-positive non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 814. Rothenstein JM, Letarte N. Managing treatment-related adverse 
2011;29(Suppl 15):Abstract 2501. Available at: events associated with Alk inhibitors. Curr Oncol 2014;21:19-26. Available 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/29/15_suppl/2501. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24523601. 
807. Rodig SJ, Shapiro GI. Crizotinib, a small-molecule dual inhibitor of 815. Brosnan EM, Weickhardt AJ, Lu X, et al. Drug-induced reduction in 
the c-Met and ALK receptor tyrosine kinases. Curr Opin Investig Drugs estimated glomerular filtration rate in patients with ALK-positive non-small 
2010;11:1477-1490. Available at: cell lung cancer treated with the ALK inhibitor crizotinib. Cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21154129. 2014;120:664-674. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24258622. 
808. Frampton JE. Crizotinib: a review of its use in the treatment of 
anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive, advanced non-small cell lung 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-145 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
816. Gandhi L, Ou SI, Shaw AT, et al. Efficacy of alectinib in central 823. Khozin S, Blumenthal GM, Zhang L, et al. FDA approval: ceritinib for 
nervous system metastases in crizotinib-resistant ALK-positive the treatment of metastatic anaplastic lymphoma kinase-positive non-small 
non-small-cell lung cancer: Comparison of RECIST 1.1 and RANO-HGG cell lung cancer. Clin Cancer Res 2015;21:2436-2439. Available at: 
criteria. Eur J Cancer 2017;82:27-33. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25754348. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28646771. 
824. Kim DW, Tiseo M, Ahn MJ, et al. Brigatinib in Patients With 
817. Crino L, Ahn MJ, De Marinis F, et al. Multicenter Phase II Study of Crizotinib-Refractory Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase-Positive 
Whole-Body and Intracranial Activity With Ceritinib in Patients With Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: A Randomized, Multicenter Phase II Trial. J 
ALK-Rearranged Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Previously Treated With Clin Oncol 2017;35:2490-2498. Available at: 
Chemotherapy and Crizotinib: Results From ASCEND-2. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28475456. 
2016;34:2866-2873. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27432917. 825. Camidge DR, Tiseo M, Ahn M-J, et al. P3.02a-013 Brigatinib in 
crizotinib-refractory ALK+ NSCLC: central assessment and updates from 
818. Shaw AT, Kim TM, Crino L, et al. Ceritinib versus chemotherapy in ALTA, a pivotal randomized phase 2 trial [abstract]. J Thorac Oncol 
patients with ALK-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer previously given 2017;12:S1167–S1169. Available at: https://bit.ly/2pCxvKu. 
chemotherapy and crizotinib (ASCEND-5): a randomised, controlled, 
open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2017;18:874-886. Available at: 826. Planchard D, Smit EF, Groen HJM, et al. Dabrafenib plus trametinib 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28602779. in patients with previously untreated BRAF(V600E)-mutant metastatic 
non-small-cell lung cancer: an open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 
819. Camidge DR, Kim DW, Tiseo M, et al. Exploratory Analysis of 2017;18:1307-1316. Available at: 
Brigatinib Activity in Patients With Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase-Positive https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28919011. 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer and Brain Metastases in Two Clinical Trials. 
J Clin Oncol 2018;36:2693-2701. Available at: 827. Planchard D, Groen HJM, Kim TM, et al. Interim results of a phase II 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29768119. study of the BRAF inhibitor (BRAFi) dabrafenib (D) in combination with the 
MEK inhibitor trametinib (T) in patients (pts) with BRAF V600E mutated 
820. Lim SM, Kim HR, Lee JS, et al. Open-Label, Multicenter, Phase II (mut) metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J Clin 
Study of Ceritinib in Patients With Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Harboring Oncol 2015;33:Abstract 8006. Available at: 
ROS1 Rearrangement. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:2613-2618. Available at: https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/147124-156. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28520527. 
828. Planchard D, Besse B, Kim TM. Updated survival of patients (pts) 
821. Kim DW, Mehra R, Tan DSW, et al. Activity and safety of ceritinib in with previously treated BRAF V600E–mutant advanced non-small cell lung 
patients with ALK-rearranged non-small-cell lung cancer (ASCEND-1): cancer (NSCLC) who received dabrafenib (D) or D + trametinib (T) in the 
updated results from the multicentre, open-label, phase 1 trial. Lancet phase II BRF113928 study [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:Abstract 9075. 
Oncol 2016;17:452-463. Available at: Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26973324. https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2017.35.15_suppl.9075. 
822. Shaw AT, Kim DW, Mehra R, et al. Ceritinib in ALK-rearranged 829. Odogwu L, Mathieu L, Blumenthal G, et al. FDA Approval Summary: 
non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2014;370:1189-1197. Available Dabrafenib and Trametinib for the Treatment of Metastatic Non-Small Cell 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24670165. Lung Cancers Harboring BRAF V600E Mutations. Oncologist 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-146 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2018;23:740-745. Available at: [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:Abstract 9013. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29438093. https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/166941-176. 
830. Planchard D, Kim TM, Mazieres J, et al. Dabrafenib in patients with 837. Pirker R, Pereira JR, Szczesna A, et al. Cetuximab plus 
BRAF(V600E)-positive advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a single-arm, chemotherapy in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer 
multicentre, open-label, phase 2 trial. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:642-650. (FLEX): an open-label randomised phase III trial. Lancet 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27080216. 2009;373:1525-1531. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19410716. 
831. Liu D, Offin M, Harnicar S, et al. Entrectinib: an orally available, 
selective tyrosine kinase inhibitor for the treatment of NTRK, ROS1, and 838. Mok TSK, Wu YL, Kudaba I, et al. Pembrolizumab versus 
ALK fusion-positive solid tumors. Ther Clin Risk Manag chemotherapy for previously untreated, PD-L1-expressing, locally 
2018;14:1247-1252. Available at: advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer (KEYNOTE-042): a 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30050303. randomised, open-label, controlled, phase 3 trial. Lancet 
2019;393:1819-1830. Available at: 
832. Doebele RC, Ahn M-J, Siena S, et al. OA02.01: Efficacy and safety of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30955977. 
entrectinib in locally advanced or metastatic ROS1-positive non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. J Thorac Oncol 2018;13:S321–S322. 839. Rittmeyer A, Barlesi F, Waterkamp D, et al. Atezolizumab versus 
Available at: https://www.jto.org/article/S1556-0864(18)31197-3/fulltext. docetaxel in patients with previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer 
(OAK): a phase 3, open-label, multicentre randomised controlled trial. 
833. Garon EB, Heist RS, Seto T, et al. CT082 - Capmatinib in Lancet 2017;389:255-265. Available at: 
METex14-mutated (mut) advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27979383. 
Results from the phase II GEOMETRY mono-1 study, including efficacy in 
patients (pts) with brain metastases (BM) [abstract]. Presented at the 840. Herbst RS, Baas P, Kim DW, et al. Pembrolizumab versus docetaxel 
ACCR Annual Meeting 2020 (virtual). Abstract CT082. for previously treated, PD-L1-positive, advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer (KEYNOTE-010): a randomised controlled trial. Lancet 
834. Schuler MH, Berardi R, Lim W-T, et al. Phase (Ph) I study of the 2016;387:1540-1550. Available at: 
safety and efficacy of the cMET inhibitor capmatinib (INC280) in patients https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26712084. 
(pts) with advanced cMET+ non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) [abstract]. 
Journal of Clinical Oncology 2016;34:Abstract 9067-9067. Available at: 841. Brahmer JR, Lacchetti C, Schneider BJ, et al. Management of 
https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2016.34.15_suppl.9067. Immune-Related Adverse Events in Patients Treated With Immune 
Checkpoint Inhibitor Therapy: American Society of Clinical Oncology 
835. Drilon AE, Sima CS, Somwar R, et al. Phase II study of cabozantinib Clinical Practice Guideline. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:1714-1768. Available at: 
for patients with advanced RET-rearranged lung cancers [abstract]. J Clin https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29442540. 
Oncol 2015;33:Abstract 8007. Available at: 
https://meetinglibrary.asco.org/content/147349-156. 842. Davies M, Duffield EA. Safety of checkpoint inhibitors for cancer 
treatment: strategies for patient monitoring and management of 
836. Lee S-H, Lee J-K, Ahn M-J, et al. A phase II study of vandetanib in immune-mediated adverse events. Immunotargets Ther 2017;6:51-71. 
patients with non-small cell lung cancer harboring RET rearrangement Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28894725. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-147 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
843. Chiou VL, Burotto M. Pseudoprogression and Immune-Related 850. Langer CJ, Gadgeel SM, Borghaei H, et al. Carboplatin and 
Response in Solid Tumors. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:3541-3543. Available at: pemetrexed with or without pembrolizumab for advanced, non-squamous 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26261262. non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, phase 2 cohort of the 
open-label KEYNOTE-021 study. Lancet Oncol 2016;17:1497-1508. 
844. Nishino M, Giobbie-Hurder A, Hatabu H, et al. Incidence of Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27745820. 
Programmed Cell Death 1 Inhibitor-Related Pneumonitis in Patients With 
Advanced Cancer: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. JAMA Oncol 851. Paz-Ares LG, Luft A, Tafreshi A, et al. Phase 3 study of 
2016;2:1607-1616. Available at: carboplatin-paclitaxel/nab-paclitaxel (Chemo) with or without 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27540850. pembrolizumab for patients with metastatic squamous non-small cell lung 
cancer [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2018;36:Abstract 105. Available at: 
845. Khoja L, Butler MO, Kang SP, et al. Pembrolizumab. J Immunother https://abstracts.asco.org/214/AbstView_214_228023.html. 
Cancer 2015;3:36. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26288737. 852. Paz-Ares L, Luft A, Vicente D, et al. Pembrolizumab plus 
Chemotherapy for Squamous Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med 
846. Sgambato A, Casaluce F, Sacco PC, et al. Anti PD-1 and PDL-1 2018;379:2040-2051. Available at: 
Immunotherapy in the Treatment of Advanced Non- Small Cell Lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30280635. 
Cancer (NSCLC): A Review on Toxicity Profile and its Management. Curr 
Drug Saf 2016;11:62-68. Available at: 853. Garon EB, Rizvi NA, Hui R, et al. Pembrolizumab for the treatment of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26412670. non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 2015;372:2018-2028. Available 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25891174. 
847. Pai-Scherf L, Blumenthal GM, Li H, et al. FDA Approval Summary: 
Pembrolizumab for Treatment of Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer: 854. Sul J, Blumenthal GM, Jiang X, et al. FDA Approval Summary: 
First-Line Therapy and Beyond. Oncologist 2017;22:1392-1399. Available Pembrolizumab for the Treatment of Patients With Metastatic Non-Small 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28835513. Cell Lung Cancer Whose Tumors Express Programmed Death-Ligand 1. 
Oncologist 2016;21:643-650. Available at: 
848. Gandhi L, Rodriguez-Abreu D, Gadgeel S, et al. Pembrolizumab plus https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27026676. 
Chemotherapy in Metastatic Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:2078-2092. Available at: 855. Socinski MA, Jotte RM, Cappuzzo F, et al. Atezolizumab for 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29658856. First-Line Treatment of Metastatic Nonsquamous NSCLC. N Engl J Med 
2018;378:2288-2301. Available at: 
849. Garassino M, Rodriguez-Abreu D, Gadgeel S, et al. OA04.06 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29863955. 
Evaluation of TMB IN KEYNOTE-189: pembrolizumab plus chemotherapy 
vs placebo plus chemotherapy for nonsquamous NSCLC [abstract]. 2019 856. Reck M, Mok TSK, Nishio M, et al. Atezolizumab plus bevacizumab 
World Conference on Lung Cancer (WCLC). Barcelona, Spain: and chemotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer (IMpower150): key 
International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer (IASLC) subgroup analyses of patients with EGFR mutations or baseline liver 
2019:Abstract: OA04.06. Available at: metastases in a randomised, open-label phase 3 trial. Lancet Respir Med 
https://www.iaslc.org/About-IASLC/News-Detail/keynote-189-tumor-mutati 2019;7:387-401. Available at: 
onal-burden-not-significantly-associated-with-efficacy-of-pembrolizumab. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30922878. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-148 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
857. West H, McCleod M, Hussein M, et al. Atezolizumab in combination non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): CheckMate 9LA [abstract]. J Clin 
with carboplatin plus nab-paclitaxel chemotherapy compared with Oncol 2020;38:Abstract 9501-9501. Available at: 
chemotherapy alone as first-line treatment for metastatic non-squamous https://ascopubs.org/doi/abs/10.1200/JCO.2020.38.15_suppl.9501. 
non-small-cell lung cancer (IMpower130): a multicentre, randomised, 
open-label, phase 3 trial. Lancet Oncol 2019;20:924-937. Available at: 864. Horn L, Spigel DR, Vokes EE, et al. Nivolumab Versus Docetaxel in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31122901. Previously Treated Patients With Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: 
Two-Year Outcomes From Two Randomized, Open-Label, Phase III Trials 
858. Spigel DR, De Marinis F, Giaccone G, et al. IMpower110: Interim OS (CheckMate 017 and CheckMate 057). J Clin Oncol 2017;35:3924-3933. 
analysis of a phase III study of atezolizumab (atezo)vs platinum-based Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29023213. 
chemotherapy (chemo) as 1L treatment (tx) in PD-L1–selected NSCLC 
[abstract] Ann Oncol 2019;30(suppl_5):Abstract 6256. Available at: 865. Kazandjian D, Suzman DL, Blumenthal G, et al. FDA Approval 
https://tinyurl.com/yacn39pe. Summary: Nivolumab for the Treatment of Metastatic Non-Small Cell Lung 
Cancer With Progression On or After Platinum-Based Chemotherapy. 
859. Herbst R, De Marinis F, Giaccone G, et al. Clinical Efficacy of Oncologist 2016;21:634-642. Available at: 
Atezolizumab in Biomarker Subgroups by SP142, SP263 and 22C3 PD-L1 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26984449. 
Immunohistochemistry Assays and by Blood Tumour Mutational Burden: 
Results From the IMpower110 Study [abstract]. European Society For 866. Melosky B, Chu Q, Juergens R, et al. Pointed Progress in 
Medical Oncology (ESMO) Immuno-Oncology Congress Geneva, Second-Line Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: The Rapidly 
Switzerland; 2019:Abstract 325. Available at: https://tinyurl.com/y8wryaku. Evolving Field of Checkpoint Inhibition. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:1676-1688. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26884577. 
860. Barlesi F, Park K, Ciardiello F. Primary analysis from OAK, a 
randomized phase III study comparing atezolizumab with docetaxel in 867. Phillips T, Simmons P, Inzunza HD, et al. Development of an 
2L/3L NSCLC [abstract] [abstract]. Presented at the 2016 Annual Meeting automated PD-L1 immunohistochemistry (IHC) assay for non-small cell 
European Society for Medical Oncology (ESMO) Copenhagen, Denmark. lung cancer. Appl Immunohistochem Mol Morphol 2015;23:541-549. 
Abstract LBA44. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26317305. 
861. Wei J, van der Wekken AJ, Saber A, et al. Mutations in EMT-Related 868. Garassino MC, Gelibter AJ, Grossi F, et al. Italian Nivolumab 
Genes in ALK Positive Crizotinib Resistant Non-Small Cell Lung Cancers. Expanded Access Program in Nonsquamous Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer 
Cancers (Basel) 2018;10. Available at: Patients: Results in Never-Smokers and EGFR-Mutant Patients. J Thorac 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29300322. Oncol 2018;13:1146-1155. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29730379. 
862. Hellmann MD, Paz-Ares L, Bernabe Caro R, et al. Nivolumab plus 
Ipilimumab in Advanced Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. N Engl J Med 869. Le DT, Durham JN, Smith KN, et al. Mismatch repair deficiency 
2019;381:2020-2031. Available at: predicts response of solid tumors to PD-1 blockade. Science 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31562796. 2017;357:409-413. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28596308. 
863. Reck M, Ciuleanu T-E, Dols MC, et al. Nivolumab (NIVO) + 
ipilimumab (IPI) + 2 cycles of platinum-doublet chemotherapy (chemo) vs 
4 cycles chemo as first-line (1L) treatment (tx) for stage IV/recurrent 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-149 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
870. Le DT, Uram JN, Wang H, et al. PD-1 Blockade in Tumors with 2012;13:478-490. Available at: 
Mismatch-Repair Deficiency. N Engl J Med 2015;372:2509-2520. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22972369. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26028255. 
878. Patel JD, Hensing TA, Rademaker A, et al. Phase II study of 
871. Naidoo J, Wang X, Woo KM, et al. Pneumonitis in Patients Treated pemetrexed and carboplatin plus bevacizumab with maintenance 
With Anti-Programmed Death-1/Programmed Death Ligand 1 Therapy. J pemetrexed and bevacizumab as first-line therapy for nonsquamous 
Clin Oncol 2017;35:709-717. Available at: non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2009;27:3284-3289. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27646942. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19433684. 
872. Gettinger SN, Horn L, Gandhi L, et al. Overall Survival and 879. Nadler E, Yu E, Ravelo A, et al. Bevacizumab treatment to 
Long-Term Safety of Nivolumab (Anti-Programmed Death 1 Antibody, progression after chemotherapy: outcomes from a U.S. community 
BMS-936558, ONO-4538) in Patients With Previously Treated Advanced practice network. Oncologist 2011;16:486-496. Available at: 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:2004-2012. Available https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21441299. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25897158. 
880. Paz-Ares L, de Marinis F, Dediu M, et al. Maintenance therapy with 
873. Rizvi NA, Mazieres J, Planchard D, et al. Activity and safety of pemetrexed plus best supportive care versus placebo plus best supportive 
nivolumab, an anti-PD-1 immune checkpoint inhibitor, for patients with care after induction therapy with pemetrexed plus cisplatin for advanced 
advanced, refractory squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (CheckMate non-squamous non-small-cell lung cancer (PARAMOUNT): a double-blind, 
063): a phase 2, single-arm trial. Lancet Oncol 2015;16:257-265. Available phase 3, randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:247-255. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25704439. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22341744. 
874. Postow MA, Callahan MK, Wolchok JD. Immune Checkpoint 881. Paz-Ares LG, de Marinis F, Dediu M, et al. PARAMOUNT: Final 
Blockade in Cancer Therapy. J Clin Oncol 2015;33:1974-1982. Available overall survival results of the phase III study of maintenance pemetrexed 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25605845. versus placebo immediately after induction treatment with pemetrexed 
plus cisplatin for advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer. J 
875. Chapman PB, D'Angelo SP, Wolchok JD. Rapid eradication of a Clin Oncol 2013;31:2895-2902. Available at: 
bulky melanoma mass with one dose of immunotherapy. N Engl J Med https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23835707. 
2015;372:2073-2074. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25891305. 882. Barlesi F, Scherpereel A, Gorbunova V, et al. Maintenance 
bevacizumab-pemetrexed after first-line 
876. Gridelli C, de Marinis F, Di Maio M, et al. Maintenance treatment of cisplatin-pemetrexed-bevacizumab for advanced nonsquamous 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: results of an international expert nonsmall-cell lung cancer: updated survival analysis of the AVAPERL 
panel meeting of the Italian association of thoracic oncology. Lung Cancer (MO22089) randomized phase III trial. Ann Oncol 2014;25:1044-1052. 
2012;76:269-279. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24585722. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22266040. 
883. Barlesi F, Scherpereel A, Rittmeyer A, et al. Randomized phase III 
877. Hashemi-Sadraei N, Pennell NA. Advanced non-small cell lung trial of maintenance bevacizumab with or without pemetrexed after 
cancer (NSCLC): maintenance therapy for all? Curr Treat Options Oncol first-line induction with bevacizumab, cisplatin, and pemetrexed in 
advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer: AVAPERL 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-150 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
(MO22089). J Clin Oncol 2013;31:3004-3011. Available at: 890. Cicenas S, Geater SL, Petrov P, et al. Maintenance erlotinib versus 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23835708. erlotinib at disease progression in patients with advanced non-small-cell 
lung cancer who have not progressed following platinum-based 
884. Perol M, Chouaid C, Milleron BJ, et al. Maintenance with either chemotherapy (IUNO study). Lung Cancer 2016;102:30-37. Available at: 
gemcitabine or erlotinib versus observation with predefined second-line https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27987585. 
treatment after cisplatin-gemcitabine induction chemotherapy in advanced 
NSCLC: IFCT-GFPC 0502 phase III study [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 891. Rittmeyer A. Quality of Life in Patients with NSCLC Receiving 
2010;28(Suppl 15):Abstract 7507. Available at: Maintenance Therapy. Cancers (Basel) 2015;7:950-962. Available at: 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/28/15_suppl/7507. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26035509. 
885. Brodowicz T, Krzakowski M, Zwitter M, et al. Cisplatin and 892. Fidias PM, Dakhil SR, Lyss AP, et al. Phase III study of immediate 
gemcitabine first-line chemotherapy followed by maintenance gemcitabine compared with delayed docetaxel after front-line therapy with gemcitabine 
or best supportive care in advanced non-small cell lung cancer: a phase III plus carboplatin in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 
trial. Lung Cancer 2006;52:155-163. Available at: 2009;27:591-598. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16569462. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19075278. 
886. Gerber DE, Schiller JH. Maintenance chemotherapy for advanced 893. Rigotti NA, Regan S, Levy DE, et al. Sustained care intervention and 
non-small-cell lung cancer: new life for an old idea. J Clin Oncol postdischarge smoking cessation among hospitalized adults: a 
2013;31:1009-1020. Available at: randomized clinical trial. JAMA 2014;312:719-728. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23401441. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25138333. 
887. Cappuzzo F, Ciuleanu T, Stelmakh L, et al. Erlotinib as maintenance 894. Stead LF, Hartmann-Boyce J, Perera R, Lancaster T. Telephone 
treatment in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a multicentre, counselling for smoking cessation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 
randomised, placebo-controlled phase 3 study. Lancet Oncol 2013;8:CD002850. Available at: 
2010;11:521-529. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23934971. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20493771. 
895. Stead LF, Lancaster T. Combined pharmacotherapy and behavioural 
888. Ciuleanu T, Brodowicz T, Zielinski C, et al. Maintenance pemetrexed interventions for smoking cessation. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 
plus best supportive care versus placebo plus best supportive care for 2012;10:CD008286. Available at: 
non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, double-blind, phase 3 study. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23076944. 
Lancet 2009;374:1432-1440. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19767093. 896. Patterson GA, Ginsberg RJ, Poon PY, et al. A prospective evaluation 
of magnetic resonance imaging, computed tomography, and 
889. Cohen MH, Cortazar P, Justice R, Pazdur R. Approval summary: mediastinoscopy in the preoperative assessment of mediastinal node 
pemetrexed maintenance therapy of advanced/metastatic nonsquamous, status in bronchogenic carcinoma. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Oncologist 2010;15:1352-1358. 1987;94:679-684. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21148615. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/3669696. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-151 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
897. Gonzalez-Stawinski GV, Lemaire A, Merchant F, et al. A comparative 904. Maziak DE, Darling GE, Inculet RI, et al. Positron emission 
analysis of positron emission tomography and mediastinoscopy in staging tomography in staging early lung cancer: a randomized trial. Ann Intern 
non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg Med 2009;151:221-228, W-248. Available at: 
2003;126:1900-1905. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19581636. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14688703. 
905. Fischer B, Lassen U, Mortensen J, et al. Preoperative staging of lung 
898. Tournoy KG, Maddens S, Gosselin R, et al. Integrated FDG-PET/CT cancer with combined PET-CT. N Engl J Med 2009;361:32-39. Available 
does not make invasive staging of the intrathoracic lymph nodes in at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19571281. 
non-small cell lung cancer redundant: a prospective study. Thorax 
2007;62:696-701. Available at: 906. De Wever W, Stroobants S, Coolen J, Verschakelen JA. Integrated 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17687098. PET/CT in the staging of nonsmall cell lung cancer: technical aspects and 
clinical integration. Eur Respir J 2009;33:201-212. Available at: 
899. Meyers BF, Haddad F, Siegel BA, et al. Cost-effectiveness of routine https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19118231. 
mediastinoscopy in computed tomography- and positron emission 
tomography-screened patients with stage I lung cancer. J Thorac 907. McLoud TC, Bourgouin PM, Greenberg RW, et al. Bronchogenic 
Cardiovasc Surg 2006;131:822-829; discussion 822-829. Available at: carcinoma: analysis of staging in the mediastinum with CT by correlative 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16580440. lymph node mapping and sampling. Radiology 1992;182:319-323. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1732943. 
900. Dillemans B, Deneffe G, Verschakelen J, Decramer M. Value of 
computed tomography and mediastinoscopy in preoperative evaluation of 908. Seely JM, Mayo JR, Miller RR, Muller NL. T1 lung cancer: prevalence 
mediastinal nodes in non-small cell lung cancer. A study of 569 patients. of mediastinal nodal metastases and diagnostic accuracy of CT. Radiology 
Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 1994;8:37-42. Available at: 1993;186:129-132. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8136168. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8416552. 
901. Arita T, Kuramitsu T, Kawamura M, et al. Bronchogenic carcinoma: 909. Kerr KM, Lamb D, Wathen CG, et al. Pathological assessment of 
incidence of metastases to normal sized lymph nodes. Thorax mediastinal lymph nodes in lung cancer: implications for non-invasive 
1995;50:1267-1269. Available at: mediastinal staging. Thorax 1992;47:337-341. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8553299. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1609375. 
902. Pieterman RM, van Putten JW, Meuzelaar JJ, et al. Preoperative 910. Chin R, Jr., Ward R, Keyes JW, et al. Mediastinal staging of 
staging of non-small-cell lung cancer with positron-emission tomography. non-small-cell lung cancer with positron emission tomography. Am J 
N Engl J Med 2000;343:254-261. Available at: Respir Crit Care Med 1995;152:2090-2096. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10911007. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8520780. 
903. Manente P, Vicario G, Piazza F, et al. Does PET/CT modify the 911. Kernstine KH, Stanford W, Mullan BF, et al. PET, CT, and MRI with 
therapeutic approach in medical oncology [abstract]? . J Clin Oncol Combidex for mediastinal staging in non-small cell lung carcinoma. Ann 
2008;26(Suppl 15):Abstract 17525. Available at: Thorac Surg 1999;68:1022-1028. Available at: 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/26/15_suppl/17525. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10510001. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-152 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
912. De Leyn P, Stroobants S, De Wever W, et al. Prospective mediastinal lesions. Endoscopy 2005;37:833-839. Available at: 
comparative study of integrated positron emission tomography-computed https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16116534. 
tomography scan compared with remediastinoscopy in the assessment of 
residual mediastinal lymph node disease after induction chemotherapy for 919. Yasufuku K, Nakajima T, Motoori K, et al. Comparison of 
mediastinoscopy-proven stage IIIA-N2 Non-small-cell lung cancer: a endobronchial ultrasound, positron emission tomography, and CT for 
Leuven Lung Cancer Group Study. J Clin Oncol 2006;24:3333-3339. lymph node staging of lung cancer. Chest 2006;130:710-718. Available at: 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16849747. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16963667. 
913. Cerfolio RJ, Bryant AS, Ojha B. Restaging patients with N2 (stage 920. Ernst A, Eberhardt R, Krasnik M, Herth FJ. Efficacy of endobronchial 
IIIa) non-small cell lung cancer after neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy: a ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration of hilar lymph nodes 
prospective study. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2006;131:1229-1235. for diagnosing and staging cancer. J Thorac Oncol 2009;4:947-950. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16733150. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19590457. 
914. Darling GE, Maziak DE, Inculet RI, et al. Positron emission 921. Rintoul RC, Tournoy KG, El Daly H, et al. EBUS-TBNA for the 
tomography-computed tomography compared with invasive mediastinal clarification of PET positive intra-thoracic lymph nodes-an international 
staging in non-small cell lung cancer: results of mediastinal staging in the multi-centre experience. J Thorac Oncol 2009;4:44-48. Available at: 
early lung positron emission tomography trial. J Thorac Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19096305. 
2011;6:1367-1372. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21587082. 922. Defranchi SA, Edell ES, Daniels CE, et al. Mediastinoscopy in 
patients with lung cancer and negative endobronchial ultrasound guided 
915. Yasufuku K, Pierre A, Darling G, et al. A prospective controlled trial of needle aspiration. Ann Thorac Surg 2010;90:1753-1757. Available at: 
endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21095301. 
compared with mediastinoscopy for mediastinal lymph node staging of 
lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2011;142:1393-1400 e1391. 923. Medford AR, Bennett JA, Free CM, Agrawal S. Mediastinal staging 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21963329. procedures in lung cancer: EBUS, TBNA and mediastinoscopy. Curr Opin 
Pulm Med 2009;15:334-342. Available at: 
916. Annema JT, van Meerbeeck JP, Rintoul RC, et al. Mediastinoscopy https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19395972. 
vs endosonography for mediastinal nodal staging of lung cancer: a 
randomized trial. JAMA 2010;304:2245-2252. Available at: 924. Mayr NA, Hussey DH, Yuh WT. Cost-effectiveness of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21098770. high-contrast-dose MR screening of asymptomatic brain metastasis. AJNR 
Am J Neuroradiol 1995;16:215-217. Available at: 
917. Tournoy KG, Keller SM, Annema JT. Mediastinal staging of lung https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7755752. 
cancer: novel concepts. Lancet Oncol 2012;13:e221-229. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22554550. 925. Videtic GM, Chang JY, Chetty IJ, et al. ACR appropriateness 
Criteria(R) early-stage non-small-cell lung cancer. Am J Clin Oncol 
918. Vilmann P, Krasnik M, Larsen SS, et al. Transesophageal 2014;37:201-207. Available at: 
endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25180631. 
endobronchial ultrasound-guided transbronchial needle aspiration 
(EBUS-TBNA) biopsy: a combined approach in the evaluation of 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-153 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
926. Rusch VW, Kraut MJ, Crowley J, al e. Induction chemoradiotherapy 932. Nakagawa T, Okumura N, Miyoshi K, et al. Prognostic factors in 
and surgical resection for non-small cell lung carcinomas of the superior patients with ipsilateral pulmonary metastasis from non-small cell lung 
sulcus (pancoast tumors): Mature results of Southwest Oncology Group cancer. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2005;28:635-639. Available at: 
trial 9416 (Intergroup trial 0160) [abstract]. Proc Am Soc Clin Oncol 2003 https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16126398. 
22:Abstract 2548. Available at: 
https://www.asco.org/ascov2/Meetings/Abstracts?&vmview=abst_detail_vi 933. Lee JG, Lee CY, Kim DJ, et al. Non-small cell lung cancer with 
ew&confID=23&abstractID=103854. ipsilateral pulmonary metastases: prognosis analysis and staging 
assessment. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2008;33:480-484. Available at: 
927. Barnes JB, Johnson SB, Dahiya RS, et al. Concomitant weekly https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18249000. 
cisplatin and thoracic radiotherapy for Pancoast tumors of the lung: pilot 
experience of the San Antonio Cancer Institute. Am J Clin Oncol 934. Bhaskarla A, Tang PC, Mashtare T, et al. Analysis of second primary 
2002;25:90-92. Available at: lung cancers in the SEER database. J Surg Res 2010;162:1-6. Available 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11823705. at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20400118. 
928. Rusch VW, Giroux DJ, Kraut MJ, et al. Induction chemoradiation and 935. Aziz TM, Saad RA, Glasser J, et al. The management of second 
surgical resection for non-small cell lung carcinomas of the superior primary lung cancers. A single centre experience in 15 years. Eur J 
sulcus: Initial results of Southwest Oncology Group Trial 9416 (Intergroup Cardiothorac Surg 2002;21:527-533. Available at: 
Trial 0160). J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2001;121:472-483. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11888775. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11241082. 
936. Adebonojo SA, Moritz DM, Danby CA. The results of modern surgical 
929. Pourel N, Santelmo N, Naafa N, et al. Concurrent cisplatin/etoposide therapy for multiple primary lung cancers. Chest 1997;112:693-701. 
plus 3D-conformal radiotherapy followed by surgery for stage IIB (superior Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9315801. 
sulcus T3N0)/III non-small cell lung cancer yields a high rate of 
pathological complete response. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 937. Nakata M, Sawada S, Yamashita M, et al. Surgical treatments for 
2008;33:829-836. Available at: multiple primary adenocarcinoma of the lung. Ann Thorac Surg 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18367406. 2004;78:1194-1199. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15464469. 
930. Kunitoh H, Kato H, Tsuboi M, et al. Phase II trial of preoperative 
chemoradiotherapy followed by surgical resection in patients with superior 938. Ginsberg MS, Griff SK, Go BD, et al. Pulmonary nodules resected at 
sulcus non-small-cell lung cancers: report of Japan Clinical Oncology video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery: etiology in 426 patients. Radiology 
Group trial 9806. J Clin Oncol 2008;26:644-649. Available at: 1999;213:277-282. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18235125. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10540672. 
931. Gandara DR, Chansky K, Albain KS, et al. Consolidation docetaxel 939. Allen MS. Multiple benign lung tumors. Semin Thorac Cardiovasc 
after concurrent chemoradiotherapy in stage IIIB non-small-cell lung Surg 2003;15:310-314. Available at: 
cancer: phase II Southwest Oncology Group Study S9504. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12973710. 
2003;21:2004-2010. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12743155. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-154 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
940. Asamura H. Multiple primary cancers or multiple metastases, that is 948. Godoy MC, Naidich DP. Subsolid pulmonary nodules and the 
the question. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:930-931. Available at: spectrum of peripheral adenocarcinomas of the lung: recommended 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20581574. interim guidelines for assessment and management. Radiology 
2009;253:606-622. Available at: 
941. Girard N, Deshpande C, Azzoli CG, et al. Use of epidermal growth https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19952025. 
factor receptor/Kirsten rat sarcoma 2 viral oncogene homolog mutation 
testing to define clonal relationships among multiple lung 949. Pearson FG, DeLarue NC, Ilves R, et al. Significance of positive 
adenocarcinomas: comparison with clinical guidelines. Chest superior mediastinal nodes identified at mediastinoscopy in patients with 
2010;137:46-52. Available at: resectable cancer of the lung. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 1982;83:1-11. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19376842. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/7054602. 
942. Han HS, Eom DW, Kim JH, et al. EGFR mutation status in primary 950. Rice TW. Thoracoscopy in the staging of thoracic malignancies. In: 
lung adenocarcinomas and corresponding metastatic lesions: discordance Kaiser LR, Daniel TM, eds, eds. Thoracoscopic Surgery. Philadelphia: 
in pleural metastases. Clin Lung Cancer 2011;12:380-386. Available at: Lippincott Williams & Wilkins; 1993:153-162. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21729655. 
951. Gandara DR, Chansky K, Albain KS, et al. Long-term survival with 
943. Martini N, Melamed MR. Multiple primary lung cancers. J Thorac concurrent chemoradiation therapy followed by consolidation docetaxel in 
Cardiovasc Surg 1975;70:606-612. Available at: stage IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer: a phase II Southwest Oncology 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/170482. Group Study (S9504). Clin Lung Cancer 2006;8:116-121. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17026812. 
944. Chang YL, Wu CT, Lee YC. Surgical treatment of synchronous 
multiple primary lung cancers: experience of 92 patients. J Thorac 952. Mina LA, Neubauer MA, Ansari RH, et al. Phase III trial of cisplatin 
Cardiovasc Surg 2007;134:630-637. Available at: (P) plus etoposide (E) plus concurrent chest radiation (XRT) with or 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17723810. without consolidation docetaxel (D) in patients (pts) with inoperable stage 
III non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): HOG LUN 
945. Tanvetyanon T, Robinson L, Sommers KE, et al. Relationship 01-24/USO-023--Updated results [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2008;26 (Suppl 
between tumor size and survival among patients with resection of multiple 15):Abstract 7519. Available at: 
synchronous lung cancers. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:1018-1024. Available https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/26/15_suppl/7519. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20453687. 
953. Hanna N, Neubauer M, Yiannoutsos C, et al. Phase III study of 
946. Rea F, Zuin A, Callegaro D, et al. Surgical results for multiple primary cisplatin, etoposide, and concurrent chest radiation with or without 
lung cancers. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg 2001;20:489-495. Available at: consolidation docetaxel in patients with inoperable stage III non-small-cell 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11509268. lung cancer: the Hoosier Oncology Group and U.S. Oncology. J Clin Oncol 
2008;26:5755-5760. Available at: 
947. Gibbs IC, Loo BW, Jr. CyberKnife stereotactic ablative radiotherapy https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19001323. 
for lung tumors. Technol Cancer Res Treat 2010;9:589-596. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21070081. 954. Hanna NH, Neubauer M, Ansari R, et al. Phase III trial of cisplatin (P) 
plus etoposide (E) plus concurrent chest radiation (XRT) with or without 
consolidation docetaxel (D) in patients (pts) with inoperable stage III 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-155 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): HOG LUN 01-24/USO-023 [abstract]. patients with non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 1994;330:153-158. 
J Clin Oncol 2007;25 (Suppl 18):Abstract 7512. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8043059. 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/25/18_suppl/7512. 
962. Pisters K, Vallieres E, Bunn P, et al. S9900: A phase III trial of 
955. Decker DA, Dines DE, Payne WS, et al. The significance of a surgery alone or surgery plus preoperative (preop) paclitaxel/carboplatin 
cytologically negative pleural effusion in bronchogenic carcinoma. Chest (PC) chemotherapy in early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): 
1978;74:640-642. Available at: Preliminary results [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2005;23 (Suppl 16):Abstract 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/216532. LBA7012. Available at: 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/23/16_suppl/LBA7012. 
956. Demmy TL, Gu L, Burkhalter JE, et al. Optimal management of 
malignant pleural effusions (results of CALGB 30102). J Natl Compr Canc 963. Pisters K, Vallieres E, Bunn PA, Jr., et al. S9900: Surgery alone or 
Netw 2012;10:975-982. Available at: surgery plus induction (ind) paclitaxel/carboplatin (PC) chemotherapy in 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22878823. early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): Follow-up on a phase III 
trial [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2007;25 (Suppl 18):Abstract 7520. Available 
957. de Vin T, Engels B, Gevaert T, et al. Stereotactic radiotherapy for at: https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/25/18_suppl/7520. 
oligometastatic cancer: a prognostic model for survival. Ann Oncol 
2014;25:467-471. Available at: 964. Burkes RL, Ginsberg RJ, Shepherd FA, et al. Induction 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24355488. chemotherapy with mitomycin, vindesine, and cisplatin for stage III 
unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer: results of the Toronto Phase II 
958. Simone CB, 2nd, Burri SH, Heinzerling JH. Novel radiotherapy Trial. J Clin Oncol 1992;10:580-586. Available at: 
approaches for lung cancer: combining radiation therapy with targeted and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/1312587. 
immunotherapies. Transl Lung Cancer Res 2015;4:545-552. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26629423. 965. Bonomi P, Faber L. Neoadjuvant chemoradiation therapy in 
non-small cell lung cancer: The Rush University experience. Lung Cancer 
959. Campo M, Al-Halabi H, Khandekar M, et al. Integration of 1993;9:383-390. Available at:  
Stereotactic Body Radiation Therapy With Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitors in 
Stage IV Oncogene-Driven Lung Cancer. Oncologist 2016;21:964-973. 966. Rusch VW, Albain KS, Crowley JJ, et al. Surgical resection of stage 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27354669. IIIA and stage IIIB non-small-cell lung cancer after concurrent induction 
chemoradiotherapy. A Southwest Oncology Group trial. J Thorac 
960. Belani CP, Ramalingam S, Perry MC, et al. Randomized, phase III Cardiovasc Surg 1993;105:97-104; discussion 104-106. Available at: 
study of weekly paclitaxel in combination with carboplatin versus standard https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/8380477. 
every-3-weeks administration of carboplatin and paclitaxel for patients with 
previously untreated advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 967. Park SY, Lee JG, Kim J, et al. Efficacy of platinum-based adjuvant 
2008;26:468-473. Available at: chemotherapy in T2aN0 stage IB non-small cell lung cancer. J 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/18202422. Cardiothorac Surg 2013;8:151. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23759129. 
961. Rosell R, Gomez-Codina J, Camps C, et al. A randomized trial 
comparing preoperative chemotherapy plus surgery with surgery alone in 968. Group NM-aC, Arriagada R, Auperin A, et al. Adjuvant 
chemotherapy, with or without postoperative radiotherapy, in operable 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-156 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
non-small-cell lung cancer: two meta-analyses of individual patient data. 975. Garrido P, Engel-Riedel W, Serke M, et al. Final results from a Phase 
Lancet 2010;375:1267-1277. Available at: II study of pemetrexed and cisplatin with concurrent thoracic radiation after 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20338627. Pem-Cis induction in patients with unresectable locally advanced 
non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Lung Cancer 
969. Postoperative radiotherapy in non-small-cell lung cancer: systematic 2015;88:160-166. Available at: 
review and meta-analysis of individual patient data from nine randomised https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25758556. 
controlled trials. PORT Meta-analysis Trialists Group. Lancet 
1998;352:257-263. Available at: 976. Crabtree TD, Puri V, Chen SB, et al. Does the method of radiologic 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/9690404. surveillance affect survival after resection of stage I non-small cell lung 
cancer? J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 2015;149:45-52, 53 e41-43. Available 
970. Robinson CG, Patel AP, Bradley JD, et al. Postoperative at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25218540. 
radiotherapy for pathologic N2 non-small-cell lung cancer treated with 
adjuvant chemotherapy: a review of the National Cancer Data Base. J Clin 977. Erb CT, Su KW, Soulos PR, et al. Surveillance Practice Patterns after 
Oncol 2015;33:870-876. Available at: Curative Intent Therapy for Stage I Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer in the 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25667283. Medicare Population. Lung Cancer 2016;99:200-207. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27565940. 
971. Patel SH, Ma Y, Wernicke AG, et al. Evidence supporting 
contemporary post-operative radiation therapy (PORT) using linear 978. Colt HG, Murgu SD, Korst RJ, et al. Follow-up and surveillance of the 
accelerators in N2 lung cancer. Lung Cancer 2014;84:156-160. Available patient with lung cancer after curative-intent therapy: Diagnosis and 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24674156. management of lung cancer, 3rd ed: American College of Chest 
Physicians evidence-based clinical practice guidelines. Chest 
972. Decker RH, Langer CJ, Rosenzweig KE, et al. ACR Appropriateness 2013;143:e437S-e454S. Available at: 
Criteria(R) postoperative adjuvant therapy in non-small cell lung cancer. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23649451. 
Am J Clin Oncol 2011;34:537-544. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21946673. 979. Lou F, Huang J, Sima CS, et al. Patterns of recurrence and second 
primary lung cancer in early-stage lung cancer survivors followed with 
973. Weisenburger TH, Graham MV, Sause WT, et al. Postoperative routine computed tomography surveillance. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
radiotherapy in non-small cell lung cancer. American College of Radiology. 2013;145:75-81; discussion 81-72. Available at: 
ACR Appropriateness Criteria. Radiology 2000;215 Suppl:1295-1318. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23127371. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11037548. 
980. Srikantharajah D, Ghuman A, Nagendran M, Maruthappu M. Is 
974. Choy H, Schwartzberg LS, Dakhil SR, et al. Phase 2 study of computed tomography follow-up of patients after lobectomy for non-small 
pemetrexed plus carboplatin, or pemetrexed plus cisplatin with concurrent cell lung cancer of benefit in terms of survival? Interact Cardiovasc Thorac 
radiation therapy followed by pemetrexed consolidation in patients with Surg 2012;15:893-898. Available at: 
favorable-prognosis inoperable stage IIIA/B non-small-cell lung cancer. J https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22859511. 
Thorac Oncol 2013;8:1308-1316. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23981966. 981. Hanna WC, Paul NS, Darling GE, et al. Minimal-dose computed 
tomography is superior to chest x-ray for the follow-up and treatment of 
patients with resected lung cancer. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-157 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
2014;147:30-33. Available at: 989. Therasse P, Arbuck SG, Eisenhauer EA, et al. New guidelines to 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24139896. evaluate the response to treatment in solid tumors. European Organization 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer, National Cancer Institute of the 
982. Calman L, Beaver K, Hind D, et al. Survival benefits from follow-up of United States, National Cancer Institute of Canada. J Natl Cancer Inst 
patients with lung cancer: a systematic review and meta-analysis. J 2000;92:205-216. Available at: 
Thorac Oncol 2011;6:1993-2004. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10655437. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21892108. 
990. Nishino M, Hatabu H, Johnson BE, McLoud TC. State of the art: 
983. Dane B, Grechushkin V, Plank A, et al. PET/CT vs. non-contrast CT Response assessment in lung cancer in the era of genomic medicine. 
alone for surveillance 1-year post lobectomy for stage I non-small-cell lung Radiology 2014;271:6-27. Available at: 
cancer. Am J Nucl Med Mol Imaging 2013;3:408-416. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24661292. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24116349. 
991. Howell DD, James JL, Hartsell WF, et al. Single-fraction radiotherapy 
984. Henschke CI, McCauley DI, Yankelevitz DF, et al. Early Lung Cancer versus multifraction radiotherapy for palliation of painful vertebral bone 
Action Project: overall design and findings from baseline screening. Lancet metastases-equivalent efficacy, less toxicity, more convenient: a subset 
1999;354:99-105. Available at: analysis of Radiation Therapy Oncology Group trial 97-14. Cancer 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10408484. 2013;119:888-896. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23165743. 
985. Ulaner GA, Lyall A. Identifying and distinguishing treatment effects 
and complications from malignancy at FDG PET/CT. Radiographics 992. Griffioen GH, Toguri D, Dahele M, et al. Radical treatment of 
2013;33:1817-1834. Available at: synchronous oligometastatic non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC): 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24108564. patient outcomes and prognostic factors. Lung Cancer 2013;82:95-102. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23973202. 
986. Shi Q, Smith TG, Michonski JD, et al. Symptom burden in cancer 
survivors 1 year after diagnosis: a report from the American Cancer 993. Ashworth A, Rodrigues G, Boldt G, Palma D. Is there an 
Society's Studies of Cancer Survivors. Cancer 2011;117:2779-2790. oligometastatic state in non-small cell lung cancer? A systematic review of 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21495026. the literature. Lung Cancer 2013;82:197-203. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24051084. 
987. Gelb AF, Tashkin DP, Epstein JD, et al. Physiologic characteristics of 
malignant unilateral main-stem bronchial obstruction. Diagnosis and 994. Collen C, Christian N, Schallier D, et al. Phase II study of stereotactic 
Nd-YAG laser treatment. Am Rev Respir Dis 1988;138:1382-1385. body radiotherapy to primary tumor and metastatic locations in 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/2462389. oligometastatic nonsmall-cell lung cancer patients. Ann Oncol 
2014;25:1954-1959. Available at: 
988. Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J, et al. New response https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25114022. 
evaluation criteria in solid tumours: revised RECIST guideline (version 
1.1). Eur J Cancer 2009;45:228-247. Available at: 995. Tree AC, Khoo VS, Eeles RA, et al. Stereotactic body radiotherapy 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19097774. for oligometastases. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:e28-37. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23276369. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-158 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
996. Kelly P, Balter PA, Rebueno N, et al. Stereotactic body radiation 1003. Rosen LS, Gordon D, Tchekmedyian NS, et al. Long-term efficacy 
therapy for patients with lung cancer previously treated with thoracic and safety of zoledronic acid in the treatment of skeletal metastases in 
radiation. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys 2010;78:1387-1393. Available at: patients with nonsmall cell lung carcinoma and other solid tumors: a 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20381271. randomized, Phase III, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Cancer 
2004;100:2613-2621. Available at: 
997. Meijneke TR, Petit SF, Wentzler D, et al. Reirradiation and https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15197804. 
stereotactic radiotherapy for tumors in the lung: dose summation and 
toxicity. Radiother Oncol 2013;107:423-427. Available at: 1004. Henry DH, von Moos R, Hungria V, et al. Delaying skeletal-related 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23647748. events in a randomized phase III study of denosumab versus zoledronic 
acid in patients with advanced cancer [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2010;28 
998. Peulen H, Karlsson K, Lindberg K, et al. Toxicity after reirradiation of (Suppl 15):Abstract 9133. Available at: 
pulmonary tumours with stereotactic body radiotherapy. Radiother Oncol https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/28/15_suppl/9133. 
2011;101:260-266. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22056534. 1005. Casas A, Llombart A, Martin M. Denosumab for the treatment of 
bone metastases in advanced breast cancer. Breast 2013;22:585-592. 
999. Reyngold M, Wu AJ, McLane A, et al. Toxicity and outcomes of Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23759273. 
thoracic re-irradiation using stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT). 
Radiat Oncol 2013;8:99. Available at: 1006. Ibrahim A, Scher N, Williams G, et al. Approval summary for 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23617949. zoledronic acid for treatment of multiple myeloma and cancer bone 
metastases. Clin Cancer Res 2003;9:2394-2399. Available at: 
1000. Scagliotti GV, Hirsh V, Siena S, et al. Overall survival improvement https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/12855610. 
in patients with lung cancer and bone metastases treated with denosumab 
versus zoledronic acid: subgroup analysis from a randomized phase 3 1007. Sakuma Y, Matsukuma S, Yoshihara M, et al. Distinctive evaluation 
study. J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:1823-1829. Available at: of nonmucinous and mucinous subtypes of bronchioloalveolar carcinomas 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23154554. in EGFR and K-ras gene-mutation analyses for Japanese lung 
adenocarcinomas: confirmation of the correlations with histologic subtypes 
1001. Henry D, Vadhan-Raj S, Hirsh V, et al. Delaying skeletal-related and gene mutations. Am J Clin Pathol 2007;128:100-108. Available at: 
events in a randomized phase 3 study of denosumab versus zoledronic https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17580276. 
acid in patients with advanced cancer: an analysis of data from patients 
with solid tumors. Support Care Cancer 2014;22:679-687. Available at: 1008. Shaw AT, Yeap BY, Solomon BJ, et al. Effect of crizotinib on overall 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24162260. survival in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer harbouring 
ALK gene rearrangement: a retrospective analysis. Lancet Oncol 
1002. Henry DH, Costa L, Goldwasser F, et al. Randomized, double-blind 2011;12:1004-1012. Available at: 
study of denosumab versus zoledronic acid in the treatment of bone https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21933749. 
metastases in patients with advanced cancer (excluding breast and 
prostate cancer) or multiple myeloma. J Clin Oncol 2011;29:1125-1132. 1009. Nokihara H, Nishio M, Yamamoto N, et al. Phase 1 Study of 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21343556. Cabozantinib in Japanese Patients With Expansion Cohorts in 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. Clin Lung Cancer 2019;20:e317-e328. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30718102. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-159 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
1010. Yoh K, Seto T, Satouchi M, et al. Vandetanib in patients with of erlotinib, gefitinib, or both, and one or two lines of chemotherapy 
previously treated RET-rearranged advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (LUX-Lung 1): a phase 2b/3 randomised trial. Lancet Oncol 
(LURET): an open-label, multicentre phase 2 trial. Lancet Respir Med 2012;13:528-538. Available at: 
2017;5:42-50. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22452896. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27825616. 
1018. Paez JG, Janne PA, Lee JC, et al. EGFR mutations in lung cancer: 
1011. Li BT, Shen R, Buonocore D, et al. Ado-trastuzumab emtansine in correlation with clinical response to gefitinib therapy. Science 
patients with HER2 mutant lung cancers: Results from a phase II basket 2004;304:1497-1500. Available at: 
trial. J Clin Oncol 2017;35:Abstract 8510. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15118125. 
https://abstracts.asco.org/199/AbstView_199_193079.html. 
1019. Peters S, Michielin O, Zimmermann S. Dramatic response induced 
1012. Platt A, Morten J, Ji Q, et al. A retrospective analysis of RET by vemurafenib in a BRAF V600E-mutated lung adenocarcinoma. J Clin 
translocation, gene copy number gain and expression in NSCLC patients Oncol 2013;31:e341-344. Available at: 
treated with vandetanib in four randomized Phase III studies. BMC Cancer https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23733758. 
2015;15:171. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25881079. 1020. Planchard D, Mazieres J, Riely GJ, et al. Interim results of phase II 
study BRF113928 of dabrafenib in BRAF V600E mutation-positive 
1013. Falchook GS, Ordonez NG, Bastida CC, et al. Effect of the RET non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 
Inhibitor Vandetanib in a Patient With RET Fusion-Positive Metastatic 2013;31(Suppl 15):Abstract 8009. Available at: 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer. J Clin Oncol 2016;34:e141-144. Available https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/31/15_suppl/8009. 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25366691. 
1021. Wang SX, Zhang B, Wakelee HA, et al. Case Series of MET Exon 
1014. Hyman DM, Puzanov I, Subbiah V, et al. Vemurafenib in Multiple 14 Skipping Mutation-positive Non–Small Cell Lung Cancers and 
Nonmelanoma Cancers with BRAF V600 Mutations. N Engl J Med Response to Crizotinib. International Journal of Radiation 
2015;373:726-736. Available at: Oncology*Biology*Physics 2017;98:239. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26287849. https://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijrobp.2017.01.170. 
1015. Robinson SD, O'Shaughnessy JA, Cowey CL, Konduri K. BRAF 1022. Heist RS, Shim HS, Gingipally S, et al. MET Exon 14 Skipping in 
V600E-mutated lung adenocarcinoma with metastases to the brain Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Oncologist 2016;21:481-486. Available at: 
responding to treatment with vemurafenib. Lung Cancer 2014;85:326-330. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/27022036. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24888229. 
1023. Cappuzzo F, Bemis L, Varella-Garcia M. HER2 mutation and 
1016. Gautschi O, Pauli C, Strobel K, et al. A patient with BRAF V600E response to trastuzumab therapy in non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J 
lung adenocarcinoma responding to vemurafenib. J Thorac Oncol Med 2006;354:2619-2621. Available at: 
2012;7:e23-24. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16775247. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22743296. 
1024. Mazieres J, Peters S, Lepage B, et al. Lung cancer that harbors an 
1017. Miller VA, Hirsh V, Cadranel J, et al. Afatinib versus placebo for HER2 mutation: epidemiologic characteristics and therapeutic 
patients with advanced, metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer after failure 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-160 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
perspectives. J Clin Oncol 2013;31:1997-2003. Available at: Database Syst Rev 2015;10:CD010463. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23610105. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26482542. 
1025. Lee SY, Kim MJ, Jin G, et al. Somatic mutations in epidermal 1032. Brahmer JR, Tykodi SS, Chow LQ, et al. Safety and activity of 
growth factor receptor signaling pathway genes in non-small cell lung anti-PD-L1 antibody in patients with advanced cancer. N Engl J Med 
cancers. J Thorac Oncol 2010;5:1734-1740. Available at: 2012;366:2455-2465. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20881644. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22658128. 
1026. Rekhtman N, Paik PK, Arcila ME, et al. Clarifying the spectrum of 1033. Heist RS, Sequist LV, Engelman JA. Genetic changes in squamous 
driver oncogene mutations in biomarker-verified squamous carcinoma of cell lung cancer: a review. J Thorac Oncol 2012;7:924-933. Available at: 
lung: lack of EGFR/KRAS and presence of PIK3CA/AKT1 mutations. Clin https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22722794. 
Cancer Res 2012;18:1167-1176. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22228640. 1034. Smit E, Moro-Sibilot D, Carpeno Jde C, et al. Cisplatin and 
carboplatin-based chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of non-small 
1027. Pilkington G, Boland A, Brown T, et al. A systematic review of the cell lung cancer: Analysis from the European FRAME study. Lung Cancer 
clinical effectiveness of first-line chemotherapy for adult patients with 2016;92:35-40. Available at: 
locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer. Thorax https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26775594. 
2015;70:359-367. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25661113. 1035. Kubota K, Kawahara M, Ogawara M, et al. Vinorelbine plus 
gemcitabine followed by docetaxel versus carboplatin plus paclitaxel in 
1028. Sandler A, Yi J, Dahlberg S, et al. Treatment outcomes by tumor patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a randomised, 
histology in Eastern Cooperative Group Study E4599 of bevacizumab with open-label, phase III study. Lancet Oncol 2008;9:1135-1142. Available at: 
paclitaxel/carboplatin for advanced non-small cell lung cancer. J Thorac https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19013107. 
Oncol 2010;5:1416-1423. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20686429. 1036. Johnson DH, Fehrenbacher L, Novotny WF, et al. Randomized 
phase II trial comparing bevacizumab plus carboplatin and paclitaxel with 
1029. Socinski MA, Langer CJ, Huang JE, et al. Safety of bevacizumab in carboplatin and paclitaxel alone in previously untreated locally advanced 
patients with non-small-cell lung cancer and brain metastases. J Clin or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:2184-2191. 
Oncol 2009;27:5255-5261. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15169807. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19738122. 
1037. Reck M, von Pawel J, Zatloukal P, et al. Phase III trial of cisplatin 
1030. Quoix E, Zalcman G, Oster JP, et al. Carboplatin and weekly plus gemcitabine with either placebo or bevacizumab as first-line therapy 
paclitaxel doublet chemotherapy compared with monotherapy in elderly for nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer: AVAil. J Clin Oncol 
patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: IFCT-0501 2009;27:1227-1234. Available at: 
randomised, phase 3 trial. Lancet 2011;378:1079-1088. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19188680. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21831418. 
1038. Mezger J, von Pawel J, Reck M. Bevacizumab (Bv) single-agent 
1031. Santos FN, de Castria TB, Cruz MR, Riera R. Chemotherapy for maintenance following Bv-based chemotherapy in patients with advanced 
advanced non-small cell lung cancer in the elderly population. Cochrane non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC): Results from an exploratory analysis 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-161 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
of the AVAiL study [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2009;27 (Suppl 15):Abstract review of the clinical evidence. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol 2012;83:407-421. 
e19001. Available at: Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22257651. 
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/27/15S/e19001. 
1046. Nguyen KS, Kobayashi S, Costa DB. Acquired resistance to 
1039. Scagliotti G, Brodowicz T, Shepherd FA, et al. epidermal growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors in 
Treatment-by-histology interaction analyses in three phase III trials show non-small-cell lung cancers dependent on the epidermal growth factor 
superiority of pemetrexed in nonsquamous non-small cell lung cancer. J receptor pathway. Clin Lung Cancer 2009;10:281-289. Available at: 
Thorac Oncol 2011;6:64-70. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19632948. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21119545. 
1047. Gazdar AF. Activating and resistance mutations of EGFR in 
1040. Soon YY, Stockler MR, Askie LM, Boyer MJ. Duration of non-small-cell lung cancer: role in clinical response to EGFR tyrosine 
chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: a systematic kinase inhibitors. Oncogene 2009;28 Suppl 1:S24-31. Available at: 
review and meta-analysis of randomized trials. J Clin Oncol https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19680293. 
2009;27:3277-3283. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19470938. 1048. Conforti F, Catania C, Toffalorio F, et al. EGFR tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors beyond focal progression obtain a prolonged disease control in 
1041. Pfister DG, Johnson DH, Azzoli CG, et al. American Society of patients with advanced adenocarcinoma of the lung. Lung Cancer 
Clinical Oncology treatment of unresectable non-small-cell lung cancer 2013;81:440-444. Available at: 
guideline: update 2003. J Clin Oncol 2004;22:330-353. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23810573. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/14691125. 
1049. Katakami N, Atagi S, Goto K, et al. LUX-Lung 4: a phase II trial of 
1042. Coate LE, Shepherd FA. Maintenance therapy in advanced afatinib in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer who 
non-small cell lung cancer: evolution, tolerability and outcomes. Ther Adv progressed during prior treatment with erlotinib, gefitinib, or both. J Clin 
Med Oncol 2011;3:139-157. Available at: Oncol 2013;31:3335-3341. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21904577. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23816963. 
1043. Park K, Yu CJ, Kim SW, et al. First-Line Erlotinib Therapy Until and 1050. Hirsh V, Cadranel J, Cong XJ, et al. Symptom and quality of life 
Beyond Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors Progression in benefit of afatinib in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer patients 
Asian Patients With Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor Mutation-Positive previously treated with erlotinib or gefitinib: results of a randomized phase 
Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer: The ASPIRATION Study. JAMA Oncol IIb/III trial (LUX-Lung 1). J Thorac Oncol 2013;8:229-237. Available at: 
2016;2:305-312. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23328549. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26720423. 
1051. Meoni G, Cecere FL, Lucherini E, Di Costanzo F. Medical treatment 
1044. Becker K, Xu Y. Management of tyrosine kinase inhibitor resistance of advanced non-small cell lung cancer in elderly patients: a review of the 
in lung cancer with EGFR mutation. World J Clin Oncol 2014;5:560-567. role of chemotherapy and targeted agents. J Geriatr Oncol 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25302160. 2013;4:282-290. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24070465. 
1045. Ou SH. Second-generation irreversible epidermal growth factor 
receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs): a better mousetrap? A 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-162 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
1052. Weiss JM, Stinchcombe TE. Second-Line Therapy for Advanced chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2095-2103. Available at: 
NSCLC. Oncologist 2013;18:947-953. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10811675. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23918070. 
1059. Hanna N, Shepherd FA, Fossella FV, et al. Randomized phase III 
1053. van Putten JW, Baas P, Codrington H, et al. Activity of single-agent trial of pemetrexed versus docetaxel in patients with non-small-cell lung 
gemcitabine as second-line treatment after previous chemotherapy or cancer previously treated with chemotherapy. J Clin Oncol 
radiotherapy in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer. Lung Cancer 2004;22:1589-1597. Available at: 
2001;33:289-298. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15117980. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/11551424. 
1060. Shepherd FA, Rodrigues Pereira J, Ciuleanu T, et al. Erlotinib in 
1054. Crino L, Mosconi AM, Scagliotti G, et al. Gemcitabine as previously treated non-small-cell lung cancer. N Engl J Med 
second-line treatment for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: A phase II 2005;353:123-132. Available at: 
trial. J Clin Oncol 1999;17:2081-2085. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16014882. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10561261. 
1061. Ades F, Yamaguchi N. WHO, RECIST, and immune-related 
1055. Anderson H, Hopwood P, Stephens RJ, et al. Gemcitabine plus best response criteria: is it time to revisit pembrolizumab results? 
supportive care (BSC) vs BSC in inoperable non-small cell lung cancer--a Ecancermedicalscience 2015;9:604. Available at: 
randomized trial with quality of life as the primary outcome. UK NSCLC https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/26715941. 
Gemcitabine Group. Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer. Br J Cancer 
2000;83:447-453. Available at: 1062. Wolchok JD, Hoos A, O'Day S, et al. Guidelines for the evaluation of 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10945489. immune therapy activity in solid tumors: immune-related response criteria. 
Clin Cancer Res 2009;15:7412-7420. Available at: 
1056. Sculier JP, Lafitte JJ, Berghmans T, et al. A phase II trial testing https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/19934295. 
gemcitabine as second-line chemotherapy for non small cell lung cancer. 
The European Lung Cancer Working Party. 1063. Janjigian YY, Smit EF, Groen HJ, et al. Dual inhibition of EGFR with 
101473.1044@compuserve.com. Lung Cancer 2000;29:67-73. Available afatinib and cetuximab in kinase inhibitor-resistant EGFR-mutant lung 
at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10880849. cancer with and without T790M mutations. Cancer Discov 
2014;4:1036-1045. Available at: 
1057. Fossella FV, DeVore R, Kerr RN, et al. Randomized phase III trial of https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/25074459. 
docetaxel versus vinorelbine or ifosfamide in patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-containing 1064. Cavanna L, Citterio C, Orlandi E. Immune checkpoint inhibitors in 
chemotherapy regimens. The TAX 320 Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Study EGFR-mutation positive TKI-treated patients with advanced non-small-cell 
Group. J Clin Oncol 2000;18:2354-2362. Available at: lung cancer network meta-analysis. Oncotarget 2019;10:209-215. 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10856094. Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30719215. 
1058. Shepherd FA, Dancey J, Ramlau R, et al. Prospective randomized 1065. Sacher AG, Janne PA, Oxnard GR. Management of acquired 
trial of docetaxel versus best supportive care in patients with resistance to epidermal growth factor receptor kinase inhibitors in patients 
non-small-cell lung cancer previously treated with platinum-based with advanced non-small cell lung cancer. Cancer 2014;120:2289-2298. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24752335. 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-163 
Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 
  Non-Small Cell Lung C ancer 
 
1066. Demarinis F, Paul S, Hanna N, et al. Survival update for the phase Oncol 2017;35:4027-4034. Available at: 
III study of pemetrexed vs docetaxel in non-small cell lung cancer https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/28968167. 
(NSCLC) [abstract]. J Clin Oncol 2006;24 (Suppl 18):Abstract 7133. 
Available at:  
https://meeting.ascopubs.org/cgi/content/abstract/24/18_suppl/7133. 
1067. Garassino MC, Martelli O, Broggini M, et al. Erlotinib versus 
docetaxel as second-line treatment of patients with advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer and wild-type EGFR tumours (TAILOR): a 
randomised controlled trial. Lancet Oncol 2013;14:981-988. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/23883922. 
1068. Kawaguchi T, Ando M, Asami K, et al. Randomized phase III trial of 
erlotinib versus docetaxel as second- or third-line therapy in patients with 
advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: Docetaxel and Erlotinib Lung 
Cancer Trial (DELTA). J Clin Oncol 2014;32:1902-1908. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24841974. 
1069. Eccles BK, Geldart TR, Laurence VM, et al. Experience of first- and 
subsequent-line systemic therapy in the treatment of non-small cell lung 
cancer. Ther Adv Med Oncol 2011;3:163-170. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/21904578. 
1070. Langer CJ, Mok T, Postmus PE. Targeted agents in the 
third-/fourth-line treatment of patients with advanced (stage III/IV) 
non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Cancer Treat Rev 2013;39:252-260. 
Available at: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/22703830. 
1071. Noble J, Ellis PM, Mackay JA, et al. Second-line or subsequent 
systemic therapy for recurrent or progressive non-small cell lung cancer: a 
systematic review and practice guideline. J Thorac Oncol 
2006;1:1042-1058. Available at: 
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/17409993. 
1072. Mok TSK, Kim SW, Wu YL, et al. Gefitinib Plus Chemotherapy 
Versus Chemotherapy in Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor 
Mutation-Positive Non-Small-Cell Lung Cancer Resistant to First-Line 
Gefitinib (IMPRESS): Overall Survival and Biomarker Analyses. J Clin 
Version 1.2022 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network© (NCCN©), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN. MS-164 
