Printed by Arihant Jain on 1/17/2022 7:36:27 AM. For personal use only. Not approved for distribution. Copyright © 2022 National Comprehensive Cancer Network, Inc., All Rights Reserved.
NCCN Guidelines Version 1.2022 NCCN Guidelines Index
Table of Contents
Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Discussion
CLINICAL PRESENTATION RISK ASSESSMENTb
Patient factors
• Age
• Smoking history
• Previous cancer history
• Family history
• Occupational exposures
• Other lung disease (chronic obstructive Solid nodules 
pulmonary disease [COPD], pulmonary fibrosis) See Follow-up 
Incidental • Multidisciplinary • Exposure to infectious agents (eg, endemic (DIAG-2)
finding of nodule evaluationa areas of fungal infections, tuberculosis) or risk 
suspicious for • Smoking cessation factors or history suggestive of infection (eg, 
lung cancer counseling immune suppression, aspiration, infectious 
respiratory symptoms)
Radiologic factorsc,d Subsolid nodules
See Follow-up 
• Size, shape, and density of the pulmonary (DIAG-3)
nodule 
• Associated parenchymal abnormalities (eg,  
scarring or suspicion of inflammatory changes)
• Fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) avidity on PET/CT 
imaging
Lung nodules in 
asymptomatic, high-risk NCCN Guidelines for Lung 
patients detected during lung Cancer Screening
cancer screening with LDCT
a Multidisciplinary evaluation including thoracic surgeons, thoracic radiologists, and pulmonologists to determine the likelihood of a cancer diagnosis and the optimal 
diagnostic or follow-up strategy.
b Risk calculators can be used to quantify individual patient and radiologic factors but do not replace evaluation by a multidisciplinary diagnostic team with substantial 
experience in the diagnosis of lung cancer.
c Principles of Diagnostic Evaluation (DIAG-A 1 of 3).
d The most important radiologic factor is change or stability compared with a previous imaging study.
Note: All recommendations are category 2A unless otherwise indicated.
Clinical Trials: NCCN believes that the best management of any patient with cancer is in a clinical trial. Participation in clinical trials is especially encouraged.
DIAG-1
Version 1.2022, 12/07/21 © 2021 National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), All rights reserved. NCCN Guidelines® and this illustration may not be reproduced in any form without the express written permission of NCCN.
